TARGETING MULTI MEDIA LEAD Draft Report February 16, 1994 Submitted to: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards Research Triangle Park, NC 27711 Submitted by: Science Applications International Corporation 7600A Leesburg Pike Falls Church, VA 22043 EPA Contract No. 68 D3 0030, Work Assignment No. 0 7 SAIC Project Nos. 01 0814 03 5608 000 and 01 0834 5608 000 TABLE OF CONTENTS LIST OF TABLES ii LIST OF FIGURES iii EXECUTIVE SUMMARY V Introduction V Data Retrived and Examined vi Identifying Clusters of Multi Media Lead Sources vii 1. INTRODUCTION 1 1 1.1 Background 1 1 1.2 Purpose 1 1 1.3 Organization 1 2 2. METHODOLOGY 2 1 2.1 Data Source Identification and Retrieval 2 1 2.1.1 Toxics Release Inventory. 2 3 2.1.2 Federal Reporting Data System 2 4 2.1.3 Permit Compliance System, NOAA Study Data, Industrial Facilities Database 2 4 2.1.4 Biennial Reporting System 2 6 2.1.5 Superfund NPL Assessment Program Database 2 7 2.2 GIS System Selection and Mapping 2 7 2.3 Definition and Ranking of Clusters 2 8 2.4 Demographics. 2 9 3. DATA PREPARATION AND ANALYSIS 3 1 3.1 TRI Data 3 1 3.2 Drinking Water Data 3 2 3.3 Surface Water Sources 3 3 3.3.1 Sources Discharging Lead into SurfaceWater 3 3 3.3.1 Prioritizing Surface Water Facilities 3 5 3.4 Air Sources 3 6 3.5 BRS Data 3 7 3.5.1 Prioritizing Facilities Handling Lead Containing Waste 3 8 4. RESULTS 4 1 4.1 Presentation of Data Summaries 4 1 4.1.1 Air Sources 4 1 4.1.2 Water Sources 4 2 4.1.3 Soil Sources 4 4 4.1.4 Regional Maps of Multi Media Lead Sources 4 5 i 4.2 Development of Multi Media Clusters of Lead. 4 29 4.2.1 Methodology for Ranking Clusters 4 29 4.2.2 Identification of Clusters of Concern. 4 31 4.3 Demographics of Population Clusters. 4 50 5. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 5 1 5.1 Conclusions 5 1 5.2 Recommendations .5 2 APPENDIX A Regional Database Maps APPENDIX B Lead Cluster Maps and Data Summaries APPENDIX C Description of Databses Files Included with Document LIST OF TABLES TABLE 2 1 Sources of Lead Data Investigated But Not Used in Cluster Determination. .2 2 TABLE 3 1 Industrial Catagories with High Potential for Air Exposure to Lead 3 7 TABLE 4 1 Figure Numbers for the Regional Maps 4 7 TABLE 4 2 Matrix for Determining Weights for the Various Data 4 30 TABLE 4 3 Regional Multimedia Lead Clusters 4 31 TABLE 4 4 National Multimedia Lead Clusters 4 35 ii LIST OF FIGURES FIGURE 3 1 Comparision of Facility Types with Lead Loadings in PCS 3 3 FIGURE 3 2 Number of Non Municipal Lead Dischargers in PCS. 3 4 FIGURE 3 3 Total Lead Loadings from Non Municipal Dischargers in PCS 3 5 FIGURE 3 4 Breakdown of POTWs in IFD and PCS 3 5 FIGURE 3 5 Number of Facilities Reported in BRS 3 8 FIGURE 3 6 Tons of Lead Containing Waste Generated by Facilities in BRS 3 8 FIGURE 3 7 Tons of Lead Containing Waste Received by Facilities in BRS 3 9 FIGURE 4 1 Air Sources by Region. 4 1 FIGURE 4 2 Large and Medium PWS with Lead Concentrations Exceeding 15 pph 4 2 FIGURE 4 3 Municipal and Non Municipal Dischargers Discharging over 200 lbs/Yr Lead 4 3 FIGURE 4 4 Lead Loading from Non Municipal and Municipal Facilities Discharging more than 200 lbs/Yr of Lead. 4 3 FIGURE 4 5 NPL sites reported in SNAP where Lead was of Concern 4 4 FIGURE 4 6 Number of Priority Receiving and Generating Facilities identified with BRS Data 4 4 FIGURE 4 7 Tons of Waste Handled by Priority Recievers and Generators Identified in BRS 4 5 FIGURE 4 8 Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 1 4 8 FIGURE 4 9 Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 1 4 9 FIGURE 4 10 Multi media Lead Sources EPA Region 2 4 10 FIGURE 4 11 Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 2 4 11 FIGURE 4 12 Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 3 4 12 FIGURE 4 13 Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 3 4 13 FIGURE 4 14 Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 4 4 14 FIGURE 4 15 Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 4 4 15 FIGURE 4 16 Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 5 4 16 FIGURE 4 17 Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 5 4 17 FIGURE 4 18 Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 6 4 18 FIGURE 4 19 Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 6 4 19 FIGURE 4 20 Multi media Lead Sources in EPA REgion 7 4 20 FIGURE 4 21 Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 7 4 21 FIGURE 4 22 Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 8 4 22 FIGURE 4 23 Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA REgion 8 4 23 FIGURE 4 24 Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 9 4 24 FIGURE 4 25 Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 9 4 25 FIGURE 4 26 Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 10 4 26 FIGURE 4 27 Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 10 4 27 FIGURE 4 28 Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 1 4 40 FIGURE 4 29 Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 2 4 41 FIGURE 4 30 Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 3 4 42 iii FIGURE 4 31 Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 4 4 43 FIGURE 4 32 Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 5 4 44 FIGURE 4 33 Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 6 4 45 FIGURE 4 34 Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 7 4 46 FIGURE 4 35 Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 8 4 47 FIGURE 4 36 Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 9 4 48 FIGURE 4 37 Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 10 4 49 iv EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Introduction The United States Environmental Protection Agency's EPA primary goal of reducing exposure to lead to the fullest extent is being expanded beyond the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards' OAQPS strategy for attaining the national ambient air quality standard NAAQS for lead. The strategy to attain the NAAQS for lead emphasizes the targeting of airborne emissions of lead from stationary sources. The resulting program centers around an implementation strategy that assesses potential environmental problems around sources of concern, followed by inspections of facilities where problems are detected. This process of targeting sources of airborne emissions of lead is being expanded to include areas with potential for multi media, multi pathway exposures to lead, with emphasis on areas of high potential lead exposure to children. The purpose of this study was to gather and analyze the available data on sources emitting or discharging lead into the multi media environment. Using the data gathered, areas were identified where there was a significant cluster of multi media sources of lead, and thus there existed a potential for multi pathway exposure to lead. A multi media lead cluster is defined such that it includes all lead sources within the geographical boundaries of a county. A procedure was developed to identify the clusters of most concern in each EPA Region and on the National level. This procedure identified the top ten clusters of concern in each EPA Region and the top one hundred clusters on the National level. Sets of maps showing the sources in each cluster of concern in the 10 EPA Regions were developed. The sources of lead in each cluster were identified for each of the 10 clusters within an EPA Region. Demographic data for the population in each cluster was also provided for the 10 clusters identified in each EPA Region. The demographic data includes information on age group, income level, and some statistical information such as per capita income. The level of detail provided on the sources in each cluster on the National list did not, however, include description of sources or demographic data on the population in those clusters. V Data Retrieved and Examined Several different databases were examined for potential sources of lead source data. The selection of databases for use in this project was governed by two factors: ready availablity of a quality assured data set in electronic form; and compatibility of data with PC based dBASE software so that they could be used in PC based Geographic Information System GIS to map the location of these sources. Data on lead sources for the different media were in the following EPA databases were downloaded and prepared in dBASE formats: Toxic Release Inventory TRI sources emitting lead to all media Biennial Reporting System BRS facilities generating or receiving lead containing waste Superfund NPL Assessment Program SNAP Superfund sites where lead was detected Permit Compliance System PCS non municipal and municipal facilities discharging lead to surface waters Industrial Facilities Database IFD municipal dischargers Federal Reporting Data System FRDS data on public drinking water system locations No specific data on air sources of lead were retrieved in the efforts of this project, but rather the data collected under the Work Assignment 0 1 of Contract 68 D3 0030 were provided by EPA for use in this project. All the databases listed above were used in creating maps to depict clusters of multi media lead sources, except TRI. The TRI data were excluded because on mapping the facilities using coordinates given in TRI revealed that the location data was inaccurate. Thus some facilities appeared to be located in bodies of water such as Lake Michigan and Atlantic Ocean. Sets of maps of 10 EPA Regions were generated using MapInfo, a PC based software package. The maps provide details on the location of the multi media lead sources and also show the areas where there is a cluster of multi media lead sources. vi Identifying Clusters of Multi Media Lead Sources There was a significant variation in the data used for the various media in determining quanititative loading estimates. A point system was developed to account for the various sources of lead in the multi media environment. The point system was based on a qualitative review of all data used in this project. Each facility or system was awarded a point value. Where information on magnitude of loading from facilities was available, the information was reflected in the point value assigned to that system or facility. The points were totaled for all facilities located within the borders of a county. The clusters were defined to be consistent with the boundary for a county. The clusters were ranked by total points scored. The points assigned to the clusters in way is attributable to actual risk, but rather merely serves as an aid for screening analysis. The clusters that ranked in the top ten in each Region were identified. Demographic data based on the 1990 Census for the population residing in these clusters counties were retrieved and provided. The names of the various sources in these clusters was also presented. Finally a list was compiled of the clusters that ranked in the top 100 in the entire nation. The method used for compiling this list was identical to that used in compiling the list of top 10 clusters in a Region, except that the clusters were ranked by including all the counties in the nation. The two lists Regional and National were mutually exclusive. vii 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 Background As part of the United States Environmental Protection Agency's EPA goal of reducing human exposure to lead, the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards OAQPS laid out a strategy for attaining the national ambient air quality standard NAAQS for lead. This strategy emphasizes targeting of airborne emissions of lead from stationary sources utilizing three steps: Implementing a comprehensive ambient air quality analysis; Conducting Federal air compliance investigations and taking enforcement actions where appropriate; Taking regulatory actions by requesting State implementation plan SIP revisions or, if necessary designating the area as nonattainment. The resulting program centers around an implementation strategy that assesses potential environmental problems around sources of concern, followed by inspections of facilities where problems are detected. If enforcement actions are deemed inadequate to bring about attainment of NAAQS, it is incumbent on the EPA Regional office to revisit the requirements for a source, and if necessary develop new restrictions. This process of targeting sources of airborne emissions of lead is being expanded to include areas with potential for multi media, multi pathway exposures to lead, with emphasis on areas of high potential lead exposure to children. Identification of such areas will aid EPA and States in targeting areas with high potential for lead exposure for compliance and enforcement actions. 1.2 Purpose The purpose of this study was to gather and analyze the available data on sources emitting or discharging lead into the multi media environment. Using the data gathered, areas were 1 1 identified where there was a significant cluster of multi media actual and/or potential sources of lead, and thus there existed a potential for multi pathway exposure to lead. For the purposes of this project, a multi media lead cluster was defined as all lead sources within the geographical boundaries of a county. A procedure was developed to identify the clusters of most concern within each EPA Region and at the National level. This procedure was used to identify the top ten clusters of concern in each EPA Region and the top one hundred clusters at the National level. Sets of maps showing the sources in each cluster of concern in the 10 EPA Regions were developed. A list of each source of lead in each of the top 10 Regional cluster was also prepared. Finally, demographic data for the population in each of the 10 Regional cluster was obtained. These data include information on age group and income level. The specific sources in each cluster in the National and demographic data for the same are not included in this report. 1.3 Organization This report is organized into five sections and three appendices. The methodology adopted for this project is outlined in Section 2. The issues that arose in implementing this methodology, particularly pertaining to the data used for mapping and identifying clusters of concern, are discussed in Section 3. Resolution of these issues is also included in Section 3. The results of this project, in the form of maps, are provided in Section 4. A discussion of the methodology employed to identify the clusters and a brief analysis of the population demographics is also provided in Section 4. Conclusions and suggested follow on effort to this project are described in Sections 5. Appendix A includes Regional maps of lead sources identified in each data source. Maps of the top 10 clusters in each EPA Region and the corresponding demographic data are provided in Appendix B. Appendix C contains information on the dBase files created and used for this project. 1 2 2. METHODOLOGY As noted in Section 1, the purpose of this project was to assist EPA in identifying and compiling available EPA data on actual and potential sources of multi media lead emissions to ground water, surface water, and soils. This data collection effort was to be limited to examination of Agency wide databases identified as including data on individual source emissions of lead into the environment. The goal was to produce maps showing geographical clusters of lead sources derived from all of the data sources. An additional component of the project was to correlate the lead release data with demographic data; necessitating the collection of such data. Described below is the methodology followed to complete this project, including 1 data source identification and retrieval 2 GIS system selection and mapping, 3 cluster development and identification, and 4 demographics data gathering. Throughout the project, Science Applications International Corporation SAIC worked closely with the EPA Lead Work Group hereinafter referred to as the Work Group to ensure that the projection direction and end products would be consistent with EPA's needs. 2.1 Data Source Identification and Retrieval As directed by the EPA Work Group, a wide range of potential sources of data on multimedia lead releases were investigated Selection of sources to be included in this project was based on several considerations. The data had to be readily available in a format that could be transferred to PC stored dBase files. Further, each database had to include reliable locational information to facilitate accurate mapping and allow correlation with other data sources. In addition, because EPA's focus for this assignment was on identifying individual sources of emissions rather than determining where environmental affects due to lead releases have occurred , SAIC excluded databases with only environmental media monitoring data. Table 2 1 presents the data sources that were reviewed but not included in this study with EPA's concurrence . The specific EPA databases identified as readily available and likely to provide useful information included: 2 1 TABLE 2 1. SOURCES OF LEAD DATA INVESTIGATED BUT NOT USED IN DETERMINING CLUSTERS Data Source Description Reason Not Included STORET Office of Water Provides nationwide surface water monitoring Does not include data on specific sources of pollutants detected in data for individual stream segments stream segments; therefore not pertinent for this study Region 5 Sediment Sample Includes sediment sampling data for Region 5 Does not include data on specific sources of pollutants detected in Database Region 5 surface waters; no national database currently stream segments; may be useful in any future efforts to validate available clusters because lead consistently detected at elevated levels in sediments more often then in water column Waterbody System/WBS Office Shows nationwide waterbodies not meeting Does not include data on specific sources causing non attainment of of Water designated uses and reasons why e.g., specific designated uses; therefore not pertinent for this study pollutants National Urban Runoff Provides stormwater runoff monitoring data for Does not include data on the specific sources of pollutants in storm Program/NURP Office of 2,300 storm water events in 22 cities; data from water; lead not expected to be major contaminant of storm water; also Water early 1980s information is dated Fish Tissue Data BEST All three databases include national information Does not include data on the specific sources of pollutants found in DOI/FWS , NCBP DOI/FWS , on lead levels in fish tissue tissues BIOSTU EPA/ESD National Health and Nutrition Provides blood levels and demographics for Provides broad survey data does not include comprehensive, Examination Survey II/ 10,000 person survey of US population ages 6 national information on all locations where blood lead levels are NHANES II HHS months 74 years ; data collected 1976 80 elevated; does not allow for identification of specific sources/causes of elevated blood lead levels; does not account for population moves during lifetime; also information is dated pre 1980 Comprehensive Environmental Provides a record for more than 30,000 Information on site impacts is descriptive rather than qualitative; Response, Compensation, and hazardous/solid waste management sites generally accepted as incomplete and not quality assured; CERCLIS Liability Information considered for listing on NPL; includes locational determined to not be reliable for identifying sites with lead releases System/CERCLIS OSWER information and some data on impacts at sites Toxic Release Inventory TRI Biennial Reporting System BRS Permit Compliance System PCS Industrial Facilities Database IFD and NOAA Study Data Federal Data Reporting System FRDS Superfund NPL Assessment Program SNAP database In addition, the results of identification and review of data sources on air emissions were made available by EPA's Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards OAQPS , as a result of work performed under Contract No. 68 D3 0030, Work Assignment No. 1. The compiled_air emission source data ready for mapping were provided by EPA. The following sections describe the data that were obtained, reviewed, and correlated from each system. PCS, IFD, and the NOAA Study are discussed together because the information from each system was combined to consider lead releases to surface waters. 2.1.1 Toxic Release Inventory Under Section 313 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right to know Act EPCRA , industrial facilities are required to report annually to EPA on the manufacture, use, and disposal of toxic chemicals. Required reporting includes the volumes of specific chemicais, including lead and lead compounds, released to the environment. Further, the release data encompasses all media, including lead discharged to land/soils, air, and surface water this multi media database is unique compared to the other data sources described below . Section 313 reporting is currently limited to only manufacturing sectors covered by Standard Industrial Classification SIC Codes 20 39. Such potentially high lead emission sources as mine sites, primary smelters, electric utilities. and commercial waste management facilities are not required to report although future reporting for all SIC codes is currently be considered by EPA . 2 3 2.1.2 Federal Reporting Data System FRDS EPA's Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water OGWDW maintains the Federal Reporting Data System FRDS as a tool to track public water system PWS compliance with Safe Drinking Water Act requirements. EPA Regions and primacy States are required to regularly update FRDS data. FRDS includes descriptive/locational information for all PWS in the U.S. FRDS also contains compliance monitoring data from medium sized PWS serving 3,001 50,000 people and large PWS serving more than 50,000 people . These data are used for compliance/enforcement purposes. Under EPA's Lead and Copper Rule, PWS with tap sampling data that show lead levels above 15 parts per billion ppb at the 90th percentile must use corrosion control. However, the data are reported system wide not for individual taps and there is no information to allow correlation of the tap monitoring levels to specific drinking water sources individual well, surface water, etc. . All locational information in FRDS represents the site of the PWS facility not individual taps . Finally, the quality of sampling data in FRDS is generally recognized as variable. 2.1.3 Permit Compliance System PCS , NOAA Study Data, and Industrial Facilities Database IFD PCS The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System NPDES program regulates point source discharges to surface waters of the U.S. This includes direct discharges of process and non process wastewaters from industrial facilities as well as the effluent from municipal wastewater treatment plants i.e., POTWs . POTWs treat sanitary wastewaters as well as receiving wastewater from some industrial operations indirect dischargers . NPDES permits are issued to all facilities with point source dischargers. Monitoring requirements in NPDES permits vary considerably depending on the type of facility and discharge. There are no baseline pollutants for which monitoring must be included in every NPDES permit. EPA has established national effluent guidelines for more than 20 industrial categories applicable to direct dischargers ; although the specific pollutants are different for each category. Overall, monitoring requirements and effluent limitations are frequently based on the best professional judgment 2 4 BPJ of the Regional/State permit writer. Generally, pollutant limits and/or monitoring requirements for several pollutants are included in the NPDES permit. However, conventional pollutants BOD, TSS, etc. are typically found more frequently than toxic pollutants such as lead. This is especially true for POTWs whose permits rarely contain monitoring requirements for toxics . Permittees submit the results of required monitoring to the Regions and States on monthly Discharge Monitoring Reports. The monitoring data is then entered into the Agency's Permit Compliance System PCS , which is used by EPA to track NPDES program compliance. Although some industrial facilities that discharge to POTWs are required to monitor their influents to the treatment plants, these data are not included in PCS or any other national database . The PCS data were downloaded for all NPDES permitted facilities where lead monitoring is required. The downloaded data included: Basic facility information facility name, city, state, zip, county, SIC code, latitude/longitude, NPDES number, Dun Bradstreet number Outfall information outfall number, monitoring location, discharge type Lead monitoring data permit limits and monitoring results for lead and flow data. IFD and NOAA Study Data As discussed further in Section 3, the initial review of downloaded PCS data suggested that some of the largest dischargers of lead may not be included in PCS: particularly municipal wastewater treatment plants. As noted above, POTWs receive residential sewage as well as a wide variety of volumes and types of industrial wastewaters . Concern arose from data on discharges of lead from POTWs presented in a May 1990 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency NOAA sponsored study. The NOAA study specifically addressed all point source discharges in coastal areas of Texas data for other Regions of the country were not readily available . Discharge monitoring data were compiled from a variety of sources, including PCS and Regional/State Office files. These data include the typical lead loadings from POTWs for discharges that have received no treatment, primary treatment, and secondary treatment. In order 2 5 to verify the validity of the NOAA study lead data and assess its transferability to POTWs in other Regions of the country, SAIC considered other sources of limited data on nationwide lead loadings from POTWs. Data for discharges from 47 POTWs were collected to support preparation of the 1992 Pretreatment Program Report to Congress, while data for 40 POTWs were compiled in 1982 for EPA's Domestic Sewage Study. The lead data from these sources correlated well with the NOAA data for all three treatment scenarios . Subsequently the Office of Water's Industrial Facilities Database IFD was used to calculate lead loadings for the many POTWs without PCS lead data. IFD includes flow data for a wide range of industrial facilities and municipal wastewater treatment plants. IFD also includes information on the level of treatment provided but not discharge sampling data . As discussed further in Section 3, IFD flow data and treatment information were used with the typical concentration data from the NOAA study to extrapolate nationwide POTW lead loadings. 2.1.4 Biennial Reporting System BRS Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act RCRA , RCRA hazardous waste generators and treatment, storage, and disposal facilities TSDFs/commercial hazardous waste management facilities are required to report every two years on types and volumes of hazardous waste generated and managed. Reported data are included in the Biennial Reporting System BRS database. For each generator and TSDF hereinafter referred to as receiver , BRS includes: 1 facility descriptive information, 2 types and volumes of hazardous waste generated/handled/managed, and 3 specific waste management practices used. While BRS does not include waste sampling data or information on individual constituent loadings to the environment, the hazardous waste codes in the database allow identification and tracking of lead containing hazardous wastes. Under RCRA, industrial solid wastes are considered hazardous and assigned Hazardous Waste Code D008 if they contain leachable concentrations of lead above 5.0 parts per million ppm . For solid wastes, leachable concentrations are determined using the Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure. For liquid wastes, the leachable concentration is the total constituent level in the liquid waste after filtering. The 1991 reporting data are the most recent data currently included in BRS automation 2 6 and quality assurance review of 1991 data were completed in Fall 1993 . The 1991 data on the generation and management of D008 waste were obtained from BRS and used for this study. It should be noted that all municipal solid wastes are statutorily exempted from hazardous waste regulation regardless of the levels of hazardous constituents in these wastes . Some of these wastes discarded paints, batteries, etc. may include significant concentrations of lead. Further, certain types of industrial wastes are also statutorily exempted. These exemptions encompass certain large volume wastes such as mining wastes including lead mine tailings and smelter slag , utility waste, oil and gas exploration and production wastes, and cement kiln dust. There is no readily available source of nationwide dat on the lead levels in or loadings to the environment from non hazardous wastes including the statutorily exempted wastes . 2.1.5 Superfund NPL Assessment Program SNAP Database EPA's Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response OSWER oversees remedial action at the over 1,400 CERCLA/Superfund sites listed on the National Priorities List NPL . OSWER maintains the SNAP database that includes nationwide data on the actual and potential risks posed by NPL sites compiled during the site assessment and remediation process . This includes information on the constituents of concern e.g., lead at each site i.e., those that have been detected in the environment or have the potential for migration/release . However, the SNAP database does not provide sufficient data to quantitatively determine lead loadings from individual sources. 2.2 GIS System Selection and Mapping With Work Group approval, MapInfo for Windows was selected as the GIS system for use in this study because: Mapinfo is user friendly, is PC based, and accepted all the files downloaded from the compiled data sources in dBASE format. The system provides for overlaying of information from different datasets PCS. BRS, etc. , allowing all data to be shown on the same maps. 2 7 It provides for mapping using a wide range of geographical divisions counties, zip codes, etc. . The system is compatible/can be integrated with other EPA GIS systems. The system is a low cost, PC alternative to large minicomputer based GIS systems. Selected lead release data from the information sources described in Section 2.1 were downloaded into PC based dBase files to facilitate mapping using MapInfo. Section 3 provides more detail on the criteria that were used to select data for downloading. Section 4 presents the results of the mapping efforts. 2.3 Definition and Ranking of Clusters SAIC coordinated with the Work Group to determine the methodology to be used to define/identify and rank clusters. To facilitate region wide mapping, SAIC and the Work Group determined that counties should represent clusters. Any smaller geographical distribution e.g., zip codes would not have allowed clearly defined mapping of clusters at the national/EPA Regional levels. In addition, lead concentrations in drinking water were only available for counties. The data from each information source were mapped on a county by county basis, Counties were then ranked taking into the following factors: Volumes of lead released or potentially released into the environment, Identification by ODWGW as having a PWS with lead levels in drinking water above 15 ppb, and, Location of facility within a county boundary Section 4 provides more detailed information on the specific ranking process/factors that were used to develop a numeric score for each county 2 8 2.5 Demographics The 1990 census data for all U.S. counties were obtained in CD ROM format from the CACI, Inc. These data included the following information for each county identified as cluster of concern: Total county population Population distribution by age group Income data distribution percent < 15,000, 15 25,000, etc; median and average family; and per capita. Further details regarding the demographic data are presented in Section 4. 2 9 3. DATA PREPARATION AND ANALYSES After identifying and accessing the selected data sources, several issues arose relating to the quality of the data. These issues were presented to EPA in various memoranda and meetings. Some of these issues were resolved as a result of these meetings. Critical issues and their resolution are discussed below, along with the process followed to prepare the data for mapping and cluster identification 3.1 TRI Data Data on multi media lead emissions air, water and soil from manufacturing sources was retrieved from the Toxic Release Inventory TRI maintained by OPPTS. One limitation of the data in the TRI database is that currently only lead emissions from sources in manufacturing sector SIC.Codes 20 39 are reported. Thus, other potential sources of lead such as municipal waste water treatment plants are excluded. A more fundamental problem with the TRI database was the accuracy of the facility location coordinates. When the TRI facilities with significant lead emissions or discharges were mapped, the reported latitude and longitude coordinates for some facilities placed them in the middle of large bodies of water e.g., the Great Lakes and the Atlantic Ocean . This problem with the coordinates had been brought to EPA's attention prior to commencement of this project. In fact, OPPTS is currently in the process of verifying the location coordinates for the various facilities. However, the correct coordinates were unavailable in time to be included in this project. As a result EPA decided to exclude use of the TRI data at this stage in identifying multi media clusters of concern. Moreover, many of the larger sources reporting emissions or discharges of lead in TRI were identified in other databases used in this project, such as AIRS, PCS and BRS. When the quality assured TRI data set containing accurate facility coordinates become available in the near future, it may be useful in making further decisions on the lead clusters. Of specific interest would be sources not included in the other media specific databases. 3 1 3.2 Drinking Water Data The primary data source for lead levels in drinking water is EPA's Federal Reporting Data System FRDS . FRDS is the compliance monitoring system for all public water systems PWSs in the United States. Under the Lead and Copper Rule, PWSs must collect tap water samples from homes that present a high risk of drinking water contamination due to lead e.g., homes that have lead solder pipes . Often the source of lead in drinking water is found in the individual home and not in the distribution system or the source water. FRDS contains monitoring data for PWS tap samples that exceed 15 parts per billion ppb lead the lead action level at the 90th percentile level. Currently, three rounds of results from monitoring data from large PWSs systems that serve over 50,000 people and two rounds of monitoring results from medium sized systems systems serving 3,001 50,000 people have been uploaded into FRDS. On May 11, 1993 EPA issued a press release in which 819 large and medium PWS were identified where lead in tap samples had exceeded 15 ppb. The data reported in FRDS for these systems did not correspond to the information included in the press release. According to ODWGW, the data in FRDS were still being quality assured and were not considered as reliable as the press release data.. For this project, the decision was made to use the EPA's list of 819 systems identified in the May 11, 1993 press release. The reported concentrations of lead in the press release were found at individual homes served by the identified PWS. However, the location coordinates reported in FRDS represent the actual location of the PWS. As a result, mapping this source as a single point would be misleading, since it was evident that the drinking water problem was not isolated at the source of the drinking water, but was germane to the larger area served by the PWS. The decision was made to show the drinking water data by mapping the entire county in which the PWS was located. The county information for the 819 systems was obtained from FRDS. 3 2 3.3 Surface Water Sources 3.3.1 Sources Discharging Lead into Surface Water Point sources directly discharging lead into surface waters of the U.S. were identified using the PCS database. Using the PCS data, 802 separate facilities were identified with measurable lead loadings. Figure 3 1 shows the two major type of facilities that were identified using the PCS data. Of the 802 facilities 470 59 percent were non municipal/industrial operations, i.e. they had SIC codes other than 4952. The remaining 332 facilities 41 percent were municipal wastewater treatment plants, also referred to as POTW, i.e. facilities with an SIC code of 4952. Non municipals: 470 59 Municipal WWTP: 332 41 144,225 Ibs/year Lead 176,657 Iba/year Lead Figure 3 1. Comparison of Facility Types with Lead Loadings in PCS From Figure 3 1 it is evident that lead loadings from POTWs constitutes a significant 3 3 percent of all loadings to the nation's surface water. However, in reviewing the data SAIC found that a significant number of POTWs had not reported lead loading data in PCS implying that lead loading is not required in their permits. Review of the POTWs reporting lead loadings in PCS revealed that they often had low concentrations of lead in their effluent stream. However, the typically large volumes of these effluent streams suggest significant lead loadings despite low concentration . Further, reported lead loadings in PCS for POTWs in the coastal areas of Texas were compared with another data set created for the same area by NOAA. The NOAA study indicated that some of the largest loadings of lead in Texas were from POTWs. However, they were not reported in PCS. To address this issue, it was necessary to estimate the lead loading from POTWs nationwide. Coordinating with EPA, SAIC compiled a database with all POTWs in the country, and their effluent flow rates and level of treatment 120 primary, secondary or 100 tertiary . The Industrial Facilities Discharge database, ao described earlier in Section 00 2.1.3, was used to obtain this 40 information. Using the effluent flow data in IFD and 20 the typical concentrations of 0 1 2 3 4 10 Region lead in effluent streams 55 Priocity Fesitities Remaining Facilities provided by the NOAA study Figure 3 2. Number of Non Municipal Lead Dischargers in for each level of treatment, a PCS lead loading was estimated for all POTWs. The estimated lead loadings for all POTWs was compared with actual lead loading data for the 332 POTWs given in PCS. If a POTW had actual lead loading data in PCS. then the PCS was used. The IFD/NOAA based data were used where no PCS data were found. All facilities, municipal and industrial discharges were then prioritized according to the method 3 4 described in Section 3.3.1 and included with the results provided in Section 4. Section 3.3.2 Prioritizing Surface Water Facilities After SAIC and EPA were confident that the available data included most of the significant lead loading sources, it was necessary to further 30 prioritize facilities accounting for the 10 greatest percentage of lead loadings to 10 surface waters. For non municipal , 4 dischargers, priority facilities were Region 55 Priority Facilities Remaining Facilities identified by reviewing the distribution of Figure 3 3. Toal Lead Loadings from Non Municipal lead loading volumes as given in PCS . Lead Dischargers in PCS SAIC found that 55 of the 470 non municipal facilities accounted for 90 percent of the lead loadings from this category. Figure 3 2 shows the distribution of all 470 facilities across the 10 EPA Regions. Figure 3 2 also presents the regional distribution the 55 facilities that account for 90 percent of the nation's lead loading from non municipal dischargers by region. The total lead loading in pounds per year from the 470 facilities as well as the loading from the 55 priority facilities are shown in Figure 3 3. IFD: 2133 96.0 PCS: 91 4.0 This ranking of non municipal dischargers including the highest loading facilities that collectively disharge up to 90 percent of the national total . 164,456 be/year land 3,050,859 established a cut off of 200 pounds Figure 3 4 Breakdown of POTWs in IFD and PCS or greater per year of lead. This 3 5 200 pounds per year cut off, was also applied to POTWs. The number of POTWs was pared down from over 15,000 to 2,278. As shown in Figure 3 4, out of the 2,278 POTWs only 91 4 percent had lead loading data reported in the PCS database. The distribution of priority non municipal dischargers and POTWs and their total loadings by EPA Region is discussed in Section 4. 3.4 Air Sources Sources of high potential air exposure were identified under Work Assignment WA 0 1 of Contract 68 D3 0030. For the current project, according to EPA's directions the information generated from WA number 0 1 was used without editing and review; in no way was the effort duplicated. As determined under WA 0 1, the industrial categories of concern for air exposure to lead identified in WA 0 1 are listed in Table 3 1. The facilities under this category were identified using the FACTS database which contains Dun and Bradstreet data. The total number of air facilities from the categories described in Table 3 1 is 1765. According to EPA, this number of facilities could be prioritized further and thus reduce the number of facilities that ought to be included in the multi media targeting effort. By eliminating all shooting ranges, and all facilities with SIC codes 3482 small arms manufacturing , 3356 soldering , and 2851 paints and varnishes , the list of 1765 air facilities was reduced to less than 1,100. The rationale for excluding these facilities was the uncertainty in the current understanding of how much lead was actually handled by these facilities and consequently their potential to be significant sources of lead exposure through air emissions. 3 6 Table 3 1. Industrial Categories with High Potential for Air Exposure to Lead INDUSTRY NAME SIC CODE Primary Copper Smelting 3331 Glass and Glassware, Pressed and Blown b 3229 Secondary Copper Smelting and Refining 3341 Secondary Aluminum Smelting and Refining 3341 Secondary Zinc Smelting and Refining 3341 Storage Battery Production 3691 Ammunition Manufacturing Small Arms 3482 Firing Ranges 7997, 7999 Solder Manufacturing 3356, 3341 Inorganic Pigments Manufacturing 2816 Paints, Varnishes and Allied Products Manufacturing 2851 Secondary Smelting and Refining of Magnesium, Nickel and Tin 3341 Secondary Smelting and Refining of Miscellaneous Metals 3341 Miscellaneous Added to list at the direction of EPA e.g., secondary lead smelters, top 20 lead sources found in AIRS, etc. From WA No. 0 1, Contract 68 D3 0030 b Includes only those facilities that are suspected sources of lead emissions c Includes on those firing ranges with words center, park, range, or preserve in title 3.5 BRS Data As indicated in Section 2.1.4, the BRS data were reported for facilities that generate or receive lead containing waste. The number of facilities that reported generating lead containing waste in the 1991 BRS database was 7910, while the number of facilities receiving this waste was 270. Clearly, not all these facilities could be included in the multi media targeting effort. Similar 3 7 to the PCS and POTW data, the facilities reported in the BRS database had to be prioritize. These facilities were prioritized in a manner analogous to that for the PCS data and is described in further detail in Section 3.5.1. 3.5.1 Prioritizing Facilities Handling Lead Containing Waste The number of 2000 facilities generating lead containing waste in 1500 each of the 10 EPA Regions is shown in 1000 Figure 3 5. Of these 500 7,910 facilities only about 90 facilities 0 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 account for 90 percent EPA Region Remaining Facilities Priority Facilities of the nation's total Figure 3 5. Number of Facilities Reported in BRS for amount of lead Generating Lead Containing Waste 8 containing waste generated. These 90 facilities were 6 considered to be the priority facilities for the 4 multi media targeting 2 effort. The number of priority facilities in each 0 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 region is also depicted in EPA Region Remaining Tonnage Tonnage for Priorty Gen. Figure 3 5. The tons of lead Figure 3 6. Tons of Lead Containing Waste Generated by Facilities Reported in BRS containing waste generated 3 8 by all facilities in each of the 10 EPA Regions is depicted in Figure 3 6. It is clear from these data that the priority facilities account for a very significant portion of the lead generated in each region. Note that the 90 priority facilities do not account for 90 percent of the region's waste, but rather 90 percent of the nation's waste . The smallest priority facility considered for this project generated at least 35,000 tons per year of lead containing waste. T h e 600 facilities receiving lead containing 500 waste were 400 prioritized on the 300 basis of the data for 200 generating 100 facilities. Since the o smallest generating 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 EPA Region Remaining Facilities facility considered Priority Facilities in this project Figure 3 7. Tons of Lead Containing Waste Received by Facilities Reported in BRS handled at least 35,000 tons per year of lead containing waste, the same cut off level was used to identify the facilities receiving such waste. As a result there are 52 priority receivers which are distributed across all regions. Figure 3 7 compares the tons of waste handled by the priority receiving facilities with the waste handled by the remaining receiving facilities. These data show that, with the exception of Region 3, a significant percent of lead waste is attributable to the priority facilities. The priority facilities generators and receivers were included in the mapping effort described in Section 4. 3 9 4. RESULTS The data obtained on actual and potential sources of lead release from the databases discussed in Sections 2 and 3 of this report are summarized in Section 4.1. The data summaries are comprised of graphical displays and geographical maps showing the facilities from the five databases that were considered to rank and identify the multi media clusters of lead sources. The methodology used to identify the multi media lead clusters of concern is presented in Section 4.2. Section 4.2 also includes the lists of identified clusters: in each Region and the National list of clusters. Further, Section 4.2 provides maps showing the locations of these clusters in each Region. The demographic data in each Regional cluster is discussed briefly in Section 4.3 4.1 Presentation of Data Summaries Data obtained from the five databases were used to identify sources or areas of concern for lead exposure through three media: air, water and soil. The findings for each of the three media are discussed below. 4.1.1 Air Sources As discussed in Section 3.4, 300 the air sources of concern were 248 identified using AIRS. The 200 location of identified facilities was 163 165 obtained from Dun and Bradstreet 137 116 data in the FACTS database. The 100 91 number of facilities in each of the 54 60 39 34 10 EPA Regions is presented in Figure 4 1. The loadings from 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 each source was not obtained. EPA REGION Thus, although the amount of lead Figure 41. Air Sources by Region 4 1 loaded into the atmosphere from the large smelters in Regions 6, 7 and 8 could be expected to be their Regions higher than that from all the facilities in Region 4, there were insufficient data available to make such a determination for this screening analysis. The distribution of lead emitting facilities, by industrial source categories SIC Codes , is depicted in the maps presented in Appendix A. A separate map is provided for each of the 10 EPA Regions. 4.1.2 Water Sources Data presented in this 250 section includes summaries of 200 sources impacting drinking 150 water and surface water. As mentioned in Sections 2 and 100 3, data on large and medium 50 public water systems PWS o where elevated concentrations 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 EPAREGION of lead have been measured MEDIUM SYSTEMS LARGE SYSTEMS are reported in FRDS. The Figure 42. Large and Medium PWS with Lead Concentrations Exceeding 15 ppb 819 100 large and 719 medium systems where lead was measured above the action level of 15 parts per billion ppb is shown in Figure 4 2. Section 3.3 presented the two types of sources which were found to be significant dischargers of lead to surface waters: municipal POTWs and non municipal mostly industrial dischargers. Facilities discharging more than 200 pounds per year of lead into the nation's water were categorized as priority dischargers and included in targeting clusters of multi media lead sources. The distributions of these sources by Region is presented in Figure 4 3 and the volumes discharged by Region is shown in Figure 4 4. When reviewing these data it should be noted that the fraction of lead discharged from municipal dischargers appears much larger than the volumes from the other dischargers. The 4 2 volumes of lead discharged from municipal facilities see presented here were based on 400 their actual flow and expected lead concentration 300 based on their level of 200 treatment. This estimate was relatively easy to make since 100 all POTW data SIC code 0 1 2 7 10 4952 was readily available Region Municipals Non Municipals in IFD. This resources Figure 43. Municipal and Non municipal Discbargers Discharging over 200 lbs/Yr Lead required for this task were not extensive. On the other hand, the data on non municpal dischargers reflects actual discharge and lead concentration data given in PCS. A far more resource intensive effort would have been required to develop estimates for each non municipal category. The EPA work 700 group was informed of this, 800 and made the decision to 300 restrict the data estimation to 400 POTWs only for the project at this time. Section 5 300 addresseses some further 200 concerns regarding these 100 data. 0 3 7 9 10 Region Municipals Has Non Municipals Figure 4 4. Lead Loading from Non municipal and Municipal Facilities Discharging more than 200 lbs/Yr of Lead 4 3 4.1.3. Soil Sources As mentioned in Section 2, EPA's Office of Solid Waste 100 89 maintains two databases which 80 76 were used to compile data for this 68 62 project: BRS and the SNAP 60 53 database. The SNAP database 38 40 includes qualitative data on 29 22 23 pollutants of concern at NPL 18 20 sites. From this database a 0 subset of data was created on all 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 EPA REGION NPL sites where lead was Figure 4 5. NPL sites reported in SNAP where Lead was of identified as a pollutant of Concern concern. The number of NPL sites in each EPA Region where lead is a pollutant of 35 concern is shown in Figure 30 4 5. Location coordinates 25 were available for all SNAP 20 sites were used in 15 identifying multi media 10 clusters of lead releases. 5 o However, similar to the air 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 EPA Region sources, no quantitative Receivers Generators data were available to Figure 46. Number of Priority Receiving and Generating Facilities distinguish or prioritize the identified with BRS data level of concern with regard to lead contamination at each of these NPL sites. 4 4 The priority BRS 8 facilities receivers and generators were identified by 6 the method outlined in Section 4 3.5. The distribution of these facilities across the 10 EPA 2 Regions is shown in Figure 4 6. From the entire BRS data o 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 set, only these priority EPA Region Receivers Generators facilities were used in Figure 47. Tons of Waste Handled by Priority Receivers and Generators identifying multi media identified in BRS clusters of lead. The actual tons of lead containing waste handled at these facilities is depicted in Figure 4 7. Figure 4 7 shows that while the number of facilities receiving lead containing waste is almost the same as that of generators, the tons of waste handled at generating facilities constitutes a significantly higher percentage of the total lead containing waste handled/managed in each Region. The geographic locations of the priority facilities are presented in the maps in Section 4.1.4. 4.1.4 Regional Maps of Multi Media Lead Sources The sources of lead loadings to air, water and soils were mapped using latitude and longitude or county boundaries for the drinking water data . Every effort was made to get actual coordinates for the facility in question from EPA's FINDS database. For example, the BRS database does not contain any information on latitude and longitude of a facility, but does contain an EPA identification number which could be cross referenced with location coordinates of facilities in the FINDS database. Where location coordinate information was unavailable, the facility was located at the zip code centroid. The data for each EPA Region were mapped separately. The Region maps depict the Region's boundary, State Boundaries and boundaries of all counties within each State. All facilities that were considered priority for the multi media targeting effort are identified as points. 4 5 The legend for these points is given on each map and depicts the database from which the facilities were extracted. The shaded counties on the map are indicative of drinking water concerny, i.e., the county includes at least one PWS which was identified as having lead concentrations exceeding 15 ppb . The BRS generators BRSG are also distinguished from the BRS receivers BRSR in the maps. Finally, the non municipal dischargers are labeled as PCSD and the municipal dischargers as POTW. Detailed maps for each Region and for each database are provided in Appendix A. Table 41 provides a brief summary of the Figure numbers relevant to each Regional map presented in this Section. Due to very large number of priority POTWs which overwhelm the presentation of data on the other sources, two maps are provided for each Region. One map shows all the multi media lead sources in the Region, including location of POTWs. The second map shows all sources in the Region except the POTWs. However, as evident from the maps, the POTWs are widely scattered throughout a Region, and are not confined just to urban areas. This was important in identifying clusters of multi media lead as discussed in Section 4.2. 4 6 Table 4 1. Figure Numbers for the Regional Maps EPA Region States in Region Figure Number for Figure Number for Mapped Multi Media Map Multi Media Maps without POTWs 1 ME, NH, VT, MA, Figure 4 8 Figure 4 9 RI, CT 2 NY, NJ Figure 4 10 Figure 4 11 3 PA, DE, MD, VA, Figure 4 12 Figure 4 13 WV 4 NC, SC, GA, FL, AL, Figure 4 14 Figure 4 15 MS, TN, KY 5 OH, IN, IL MN, WI, Figure 4 16 Figure 4 17 MI 6 AK, LA, TX, NM, OK Figure 4 18 Figure 4 19 7 IA, MO, KS, NB Figure 4 20 Figure 4 21 8 ND, SD, CO, UT, Figure 4 22 Figure 4 23 WY, MT 9 AZ, CA, NV Figure 4 24 Figure 4 25 10 ID, WA, OR Figure 4 26 Figure 4 27 4 7 LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW Figure 4 8. Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 1 FOLM LCCD BIRE your 1202 LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG. BRSR. PCSD + + s Figure 4 9. Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 1 I to BN CBP O O O 0 + 00 B FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + to SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW Figure 4 10. Multi media Lead Sources EPA Region 2 PCS ic + B FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD ENDE Figure 4 11. Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 2 + 83 FRDS COUNTIES + 00 at AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD XD 0 is 0 POTW a It B a e C G And . . @ O HO + 0 e Figure 4 12. Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 3 + + FRDS COUNTIES + + + 4 AIRS + SNAP + BRSG BRSR PCSD + it + + 9 FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BREG BRSB PCSD Figure 4 13. Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 3 FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW Figure 4 14. Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 4 8 FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD Figure 4 15. Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 4 1 Q O 8 o LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES D o will AIRS o + 90 SNAP BRSG O o BRSR o o o PCSD R 0 POTW a Figure 4 16. Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 5 LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD is Figure 4 17. Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 5 E 3 f a U 1 + + O FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW Figure 4 18. Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 6 0 O + FRDS COUNTIES + AIRS SNAP BRSG. BRSR Q PCSD POTW IF 0 8 + BRSG 8 Figure 4 20. Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 7 D FRDS AIRS. COUNTIES SNAP BRSG. BRSR. o PCSD. by Figure 4 21. Region 7 + 0 + FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW O In + + + + O O Figure 4 22. Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 8 + 601/2 LO2D FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR + PCSD is SNAP + BESG BISR PCD + + Figure 4 23. Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 8 AIRS. SNAP BRSG. BRSR PCSD. POTW. 9 ++ + + FRDS COUNTIES + AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD + + Figure 4 25. Multi media Lead Sources without POTWs in EPA Region 9 FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP FORD BRSG BRSR BIBK 3 91220 PCSD POTW O W D + Figure 4 26. Multi media Lead Sources in EPA Region 10 4.2 Development of Multi Media Clusters of Lead Emissions The first step in identifying a multi media cluster was to define what a cluster would be for this project. As mentioned in Section 2.4, based on preliminary maps presented to the EPA Work Group, it became clear that the smallest geographical boundaries which could be shown for Regional level maps were county boundaries. All of the facility data in the five databases could be mapped to the county level. Accordingly, with the consent of the EPA Work Group a multi media cluster of lead sources was defined at the county level for the screening analysis. For the remainder of this report all references to clusteras refers to counties. The maps presented in Section 4.1.4, show that there are several counties in each region where there are significant clusters of multimedia lead sources. In order to identify the top ten clusters in each region, a qualitative ranking methodology was necessary. However, the maps only provide a cursory indication of the multimedia clusters, a more definitive method of analysis was necessary for this project. 4.2.1 Methodology for Ranking Clusters One problem with the data used for the maps was that while some of the databases PCS, and to a much lesser extent, BRS were able to provide an indication of the magnitude of lead loadings into the environment, other databases AIRS and SNAP only gave information on locations of sites. Further for the drinking water data, some information was available on the size of the population that was exposed to lead large or medium systems . Given these data differences/limitations, the methodology described below was developed and used to rank these clusters based on qualitative criteria . The candidate counties in each region which appeared to contain clusters of multimedia lead sources were identified from the mapping process. While some of the databases included information on county identity i.e., the drinking water data , others like SNAP and the PCS did not. The GIS software Mapinfo was used to identify the county location for these facilities. An additional database was created identifying county FIPS codes for each facility that was mapped. A computer program was then written to sum the number of multi media lead emitting facilities 4 29 in each county. A point system was devised to use the information on the number of facilities and their relative size in developing a ranking of the multimedia lead clusters in each region. The weighting system used in scoring the points for each cluster is summarized in Table 4 2. Each facility in a county that was mapped using the SNAP and AIRS data was given a point value of 1.0. For every large PWS located in a county, a point value 1.25 was added to the county tally. A point value of 0.75 was added to a county's point tally for each medium PWS. Any BRS facility in a county receiver or generator handling more than 1,000,000 million tons of lead containing waste was given a point value of 1.5, while a facility handling between 1,000,000 and 100,000 tons received a point value 1.0 and a point value 0.5 was given to a facility handling between 100,000 and 35,000 tons of waste. Any facility discharging more than 10,000 pounds per year of lead into the surface water was given a point value of 1.5, while a point value of 1.0 was given to a facility discharging between 10,000 and 1,000 lbs/year of lead. Facilities discharging between 1,000 and 200 lbs/year of lead were given a point value of 0.5. Table 4 2. Matrix for Determining Weights for the Various Data Database Size of Facility Weight AIRS/Dun Bradstreet n/a 1.0 SNAP n/a 1.0 Drinking Water Large 1.25 Medium 0.75 PCS/IFD > 10,000 lbs/yr 1.5 10,000 1,000 lbs/yr 1.0 1,000 200 lbs/yr 0.5 BRS 1,000,000 tons/yr 1.5 1,000,000 100,000 tons/yr 1.0 100.000 35,000 tons/yr 0.5 The facilities in PCS and BRS database receiving a weight of 1.5 represented roughly 40 4 30 percent of the total loading, facilities accounting for the next 40 percent of the loading received a weight of 1.0 while the facilities accounting for the bottom 20 percent received a weight of 0.5. The computer program provided a total number of points for each county in question. The counties with the highest number of points were thus considered as the clusters of most concern for multi media lead sources. 4.2.2 Identification of Clusters of Concern Based on the results of the methodology presented above the clusters were ranked by their scored points. Two separate lists of the clusters were developed based on the point system. One identified the top ten multi media lead clusters in each region. Using the same methodology the second list identified the top 100 similar clusters in the country as a whole. Table 4 3 lists the top ten clusters in each region, and provides the county name, its FIPS code, the State in which it is located, the total number of facilities or systems in that county, and the total points scored. Table 4 4 lists the same information for the top 100 clusters in the national list. Note that all clusters that appear in Table 4 3 do not appear in national list presented in Table 4 4, since the point score for lowly ranked clusters in some Regions was higher than the more highly ranked clusters in other Regions. Thus clusters ranked eleventh and twelfth in Region 5 could have a point score higher than a cluster ranked fifth in Region 7, as an example. Table 4 3. Regional Multimedia Lead Clusters REGION FIPS Code ST County Name Facilities Total Weight 1 25017 MA Middlesex 44 38.25 1 25027 MA Worcester 33 24.50 1 25009 MA Essex 33 24.25 I 09001 CT Fairfield 21 19.50 I 25013 MA Hampden 19 15.50 1 44007 RI Providence 17 15.25 1 25021 MA Norfolk 17 15.00 4 31 Table 4 3. Regional Multimedia Lead Clusters REGION FIPS Code ST County Name Facilities Total Weight 1 09009 CT New Haven 18 14.50 1 25005 MA Bristol 15 11.25 1 09003 CT Hartford 15 10.25 2 36119 NY Westchester 35 29.25 2 34023 NJ Middlesex 21 18.25 2 34003 NJ Bergen 17 14.50 2 34025 NJ Monmouth 19 14.50 2 34017 NJ Hudson 16 14.50 2 34013 NJ Essex 17 14.00 2 36059 NY Nassau 16. 12.25 2 36029 NY Erie 14 11.75 2 36061 NY New York 11 11.50 2 36047 NY Kings 10 11.00 3 42003 PA Allegheny 26 21.50 3 42011 PA Berks 17 16.50 3 42091 PA Montgomery 22 16.00 3 42101 PA Philadelphia 14 15.50 3 42029 PA Chester 17 14.00 3 42017 PA Bucks 18 14.00 3 42071 PA Lancaster 14 11.75 3 42079 PA Luzerne 12 10.25 3 10003 DE New Castle 9 9.00 3 42129 PA Westmoreland 13 8.00 4 12025 FL Dade 20 17.50 4 12011 FL Broward 21 17.25 4 32 Table 4 3. Regional Multimedia Lead Clusters REGION FIPS Code ST County Name Facilities Total Weight 4 12057 FL Hillsborough 18 16.50 4 13121 GA Fulton 15 13.75 4 21111 KY Jefferson 13 12.00 4 12031 FL Duval 13 10.50 4 01073 AL Jefferson 12 10.00 4 47157 TN Shelby 9 9.50 4 12127. FL Volusia 9 7.75 4 45045 SC Greenville 9 7.50 5 17031 IL Cook 94 85.25 5 26163 MI Wayne 42 35.75 5 39035 OH Cuyahoga 34 30.75 5 17043 IL Dupage 31 23.25 5 18089 IN Lake 25 21.75 5 17097 IL Lake 23 18.25 5 26125 MI Oakland 18 16.75 5 27037 MN Dakota 16 15.00 5 55079 WI Milwaukee 16 14.00 5 17089 IL Kane 14 11.25 6 48201 TX Harris 69 49.75 6 48113 TX Dallas 35 33.50 6 40109 OK Oklahoma 13 10.00 6 48439 TX Tarrant 9 9.00 6 22051 LA Jefferson 15 8.50 6 22033 LA East Baton Rouge 9 7.50 6 48167 TX Galveston 10 7.00 4 33 Table 4 3. Regional Multimedia Lead Clusters REGION FTPS Code ST County Name Facilities Total Weight 6 48029 TX Bexar 8 6.75 6 48245 TX Jefferson 9 6.50 6 48039 TX Brazoria 8 5.75 7 29510 MO St. Louis City 8 8.50 7 29189 MO St. Louis 7 6.50 7 19153 IA Polk 6 4.50 7 20209 KS Wyandotte 5 4.50 7 31055 NE Douglas 5 4.00 7 31153 NE Sarpy 4 4.00 7 19057 IA Des Moines 4 3.50 7 19155 IA Pottawattamie 4 3.50 7 29165 MO Platte 4 3.50 7 29095 MO Jackson 5 3.00 8 49035 UT Salt Lake 19 16.50 8 08031 CO Denver 10 9.50 8 49049 UT Utah 9 6.00 8 08069 CO Larimer 6 4.00 8 30049 MT Lewis and Clark 4 3.50 8 08013 CO Boulder 4 3.00 8 08005 CO Arapahoe 3 3.00 8 08101 CO Pueblo 3 3.00 8 46099 SD Minnehaha 3 3.00 8 08001 CO Adams 3 2.75 9 06037 CA Los Angeles 76 73.00 9 06073 CA San Diego 21 20.50 4 34 Table 4 3. Regional Multimedia Lead Clusters REGION FIPS Code ST County Name Facilities Total Weight 9 06059 CA Orange 22 20.50 9 06001 CA Alameda 20 18.00 9 06085 CA Santa Clara 16 16.75 9 06081 CA San Mateo 18 13.50 9 04013 AZ Maricopa 13 13.50 9 06013 CA Contra Costa 12 10.50 9 06075 CA San Francisco 8 8.00 9 06071 CA San Bernardino 9 7.75 10 53033 WA King 42 34.50 10 41051 OR Multnomah 16 14.25 10 53053 WA Pierce 15 12.00 10 53061 WA Snohomish 11 9.00 10 53063 WA Spokane 9 8.50 10 53035 WA Kitsap 8 7.25 10 41067 OR Washington 9 7.00 10 41005 OR Clackamas 9 5.75 10 53005 WA Benton 7 5.50 10 53011 WA Clark 7 5.50 Table 4 4. National Multimedia Lead Clusters REGION FIPS ST County Name Facilities Total Weight 5 17031 IL Cook 94 85.25 9 6037 CA Los Angeles 76 73 6 48201 TX Harris 69 49.75 1 25017 MA Middlesex 44 38.25 5 26163 MI Wayne 42 35.75 4 35 Table 4 4. National Multimedia Lead Clusters REGION FIPS ST County Name Facilities Total Weight 10 53033 WA King 42 34.5 6 48113 TX Dallas 35 33.5 5 39035 OH Cuyahoga 34 30.75 2 36119 NY Westchester 35 29.25 1 25027 MA Worcester 33 24.5 1 25009 MA Essex 33 24.25 5 17043 IL Dupage 31 23.25 5 18089 IN Lake 25 21.75 3 42003 PA Allegheny 26 21.5 9 6059 CA Orange 22 20.5 9 6073 CA San Diego 21 20.5 1 9001 CT Fairfield 21 19.5 5 17097 IL Lake 23 18.25 2 34023 NJ Middlesex 21 18.25 9 6001 CA Alameda 20 18 4 12025 FL Dade 20 17.5 4 12011 FL Broward 21 17.25 9 6085 CA Santa Clara 16 16.75 5 26125 MI Oakland 18 16.75 4 12057 FL Hillsborough 18 16.5 3 42011 PA Berks 17 16.5 8 49035 UT Salt Lake 19 16.5 3 42091 PA Montgomery 22 16 1 25013 MA Hampden 19 15.5 3 42101 PA Philadelphia 14 15.5 4 36 Table 4 4. National Multimedia Lead Clusters REGION FIPS ST County Name Facilities Total Weight 1 44007 RI Providence 17 15.25 I 25021 MA Norfolk 17 15 5 27037 MN Dakota 16 15 1 9009 CT New Haven 18 14.5 2 34017 NJ Hudson 16 14.5 2 34003 NJ Bergen 17 14.5 2 34025 NJ Monmouth 19 14.5 10 41051 OR Multnomah 16 14.25 2 34013 NJ Essex 17 14 3 42017 PA Bucks 18 14 3 42029 PA Chester 17 14 5 55079 WI Milwaukee 16 14 4 13121 GA Fulton 15 13.75 9 6081 CA San Mateo 18 13.5 9 4013 AZ Maricopa 13 13.5 2 36059 NY Nassau 16 12.25 4 21111 KY Jefferson 13 12 10 53053 WA Pierce 15 12 2 36029 NY Erie 14 11.75 3 42071 PA Lancaster 14 11.75 2 36061 NY New York 11 11.5 5 17089 IL Kane 14 11.25 I 25005 MA Bristol 15 11.25 2 36047 NY Kings 10 11 9 6013 CA Contra Costa 12 10.5 4 37 Table 4 4. National Multimedia Lead Clusters REGION FTPS ST County Name Facilities Total Weight 4 12031 FL Duval 13 10.5 5 18097 IN Marion 11 10.5 2 36103 NY Suffolk 11 10.5 2 34007 NJ Camden 18 10.5 1 9003 CT Hartford 15 10.25 3 42079 PA Luzerne 12 10.25 4 1073 AL Jefferson 12 10 2 34039 NJ Union 10 10 2 36067 NY Onondaga 12 10 6 40109 OK Oklahoma 13 10 5 27053 MN Hennepin 10 9.75 2 34005 NJ Burlington 12 9.75 5 55133 WI Waukesha 11 9.75 8 8031 CO Denver 10 9.5 2 34027 NJ Morris 11 9.5 4 47157 TN Shelby 9 9.5 2 36071 NY Orange 11 9.25 2 34029 NJ Ocean 11 9.25 3 10003 DE New Castle 9 9 6 48439 TX Tarrant 9 9 10 53061 WA Snohomish 11 9 5 17197 IL Will 10 8.75 5 26081 MI Kent 9 8.75 2 34031 NJ Passaic 11 8.75 I 25023 MA Plvmouth I I 8.5 4 38 Table 4 4. National Multimedia Lead Clusters REGION FIPS ST County Name Facilities Total Weight 1 25025 MA Suffolk 8 8.5 6 22051 LA Jefferson 15 8.5 7 29510 MO St. Louis City 8 8.5 5 39049 OH Franklin 8 8.5 10 53063 WA Spokane 9 8.5 1 25001 MA Barnstable 11 8.25 9 6075 CA San Francisco 8 8 5 17119 IL Madison 11 8 3 42129 PA Westmoreland 13 8 4 12127 FL Volusia 9 7.75 9 6071 CA San Bernardino 9 7.75 5 27123 MN Ramsey 7 7.75 3 42107 PA Schuylkill 10 7.75 3 42133 PA York 10 7.75 6 22033 LA East Baton Rouge 9 7.5 2 36055 NY Monroe 9 7.5 5 39095 OH Lucas 3 7.5 4 45045 SC Greenville 9 7.5 9 15003 HI Honolulu 10 7.25 4 12099 FL Palm Beach 10 7.25 Maps showing location of the counties identified in Table 4 3 are depicted by Region in Figures 4 27 through 4 36. Detailed maps of each of the counties listed in Table 4 3 showing locations of the various facilities/emission sources in that county are presented in Appendix B. 4 39 LEGEND LEAD CLUSTER COUNTIES ESSEX WORCESTER MIDDLESEX HAMPDEN NORFOLK HARTFORD BRISTOL NEW HAVEN PROVIDENCE 0 FAIRFIELD Figure 4 28. Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 1 ERIE WESTCHESTER BERGEN NEW YORK ESSEX NASSAU MIDDLESEX KINGS LEGEND HUDSON LEAD EAD CLUSTER COUNTIES MONMOUTH 4 29. Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 2 Figure LUZERNE LEGEND BERKS . LEAD CLUSTER COUNTIES BUCKS 0 7677 ALLEGHENY TECENO MONTGOMERY WESTMORELAND PHILADELPHIA CHESTER LANCASTER NEW CASTLE REMAINE FLORING Figure 4 30. Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 3 JEFFERSON SHELBY GREENVILLE JEFFERSON FULTON DUVAL FOUND VOLUSIA HILLSBOROUGH LEGEND LEAD CLUSTER COUNTIES BROWARD DADE Figure 4 31. Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 4 POLK EV2L BYJON DEXAUT TECEMO DAKOTA OAKLAND MILWAUKEE WAYNE LAKE KANE CUYAHOGA DU PAGE COOK LEGEND LEAD CLUSTER COUNTIES LAKE Figure 4 32. Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in FDA Region 5 OKLAHOMA IDEA TRONTD JEFFERSON DYKOILY LEGEND JEFFERSON LEAD CLUSTER COUNTIES TARRANT HARRIS GALVESTON BRAZORIA BEXAR DALLAS EAST BATON ROUGE Figure 4 33. Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 6 DOUGLAS POTTAWATTAMIE POLK SARPY DES MOINES ST. LOUIS ST. LOUIS CITY LEGEND WYANDOTTE LEAD CLUSTER COUNTIES PLATTE JACKSON Figure 4 34. Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 7 LEWIS AND CLARK MINNEHAHA 0012 LARIMER BOULDER SALT LAKE ADAMS UTAH ARAPAHOE DENVER GAMESTON PUEBLO LEGEND ON ROUGE BORK LEAD CLUSTER COUNTIES Figure 4 35. Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 8 LEGEND LEAD CLUSTER COUNTIES CONTRA COSTA SAN FRANCISCO ALAMEDA SAN MATEO SANTA CLARA SAN BERNARDINO MERCE LOS ANGELES KURVE ORANGE KING SAN DIEGO MARICOPA Figure 4 36. Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 9 SPOKANE LEGEND LEAD CLUSTER COUNTIES SNOHOMISH KING KITSAP PIERCE BENTON CLARK WASHINGTON MULTNOMAH CLACKAMAS Figure 4 37. Multi media Lead Clusters Counties in EPA Region 10 4.3 Demographics of Population in Clusters Having determined the clusters of multi media lead sources, EPA also wanted to obtain demographic information for the population residing in each identified county to provide some detail on characteristics of the population potentially exposed to lead. Of particular concern to EPA are the number of children that are likely to be exposed to lead and the income level of the families in the clusters listed in Table 4 3. Information compiled by CACI, Inc from the 1990 Census data was used to determine population distributions by age groups in each county. The populations for the following age groups were considered: 0 to 4 years 5 to 9 years 10 to 14 years 15 to 64 years 65 years and above Also of interest to EPA was the income levels of the families residing in these clusters. In addition to statistics on the mean and median family incomes, and the per capita income, population information was also obtained for the following family income levels: less than 15,000 per year between 15,000 and 25,000 per year between 25,000 and 35,000 per year between 35,000 and 50,000 per year between 50,000 and 75,000 per year more than 75,000 per year The population statistics for the 100 counties listed in Table 4 3 are provided in Appendix B. 4 50 5. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 5.1 Conclusions After examining the methodology, the data, and the results from this targeting exercise two things must be stressed: a comprehensive nationwide multi media database does not exist for any pollutant; and that any national screening analysis must depend on the best available information at the national level. Although, the TRI database has the makings of a national multi media database, it is by no means comprehensive at this point. Proposed enhancements and reporting requirements may change the ultimate usefulness of TRI. For the purposes of targeting multi media sources of lead, the media specific national databases maintained by EPA were acknowledged as containing the most comprehensive and accurate data on lead. However, there were gaps in these data such as the incomplete information on POTW data in the PCS database. Efforts were made to resolve these gaps in information to the fullest extent possible, such as obtaining flow data from IFD and estimating lead loadings for POTWs. However, limited resources restricted this effort to use of information that was readily available from EPA in electronic form at the national level. Regional and State databases were not examined. This was done partly because the effort would be a national screening without regional or local bias of the results. Although the results were presented at the Regional level, they were, however, obtained from use of the same data and methodology. A question may arise whether data on one particular media was the dominant ractor in identifying the clusters. The reasonable answer is that such a bias does not appear to exist. This question is likely to stem from the fact that there were a high number of POTWs compared to other sources discharging to the different media. The air sources also appear to be most significant in the urban areas. Upon further examination of the maps in Section 4 and Appendix B, it is apparent that: POTWs were fairly well distributed across all counties in the United States; and that while some air sources may have biased the cluster results for urban areas in Region 5. it is not the norm in all Regions. The final and most important issue is that the intent and purpose of this project was to 5 1 serve as a first level screening analysis which would help identify clusters of multi media lead sources. This screening was intended to identify areas where there is a potential for multi pathway exposure to lead. The weights presented in Table 4 3 and Table 4 4 are not to be construed as a number representing any kind of risk. This study was not intended to serve as a definitive risk assessment. The results of this study were intended to aid managers and decision makers in the EPA in prioritizing allocation of resources and efforts for further investigation of multi pathway, multi media exposure to lead. The study has succeeded in narrowing down the areas in the Regions and the Nation where further examination of exposure to lead and the resulting risk from it must be examined in greater detail. 5.2 Recommendations Given that this study is just a screening analysis designed to target areas for further investigation some recommendations are included here to help in streamlining the decisions to be made. Based on the data presented in this report, it appears that Region 5 has the most significant number of lead sources compared to the other Regions. As one of the largest regions in the country with a significantly high population density it would be a good candidate as a Region that would merit a more detailed examination of the multi pathway, multi media exposure to lead. The steps suggested below are SAIC's recommendations for follow on studies and should not be construed as EPA policy. Examine and gather in greater detail, data on concentrations or lead in the environment for all media. Lead concentration data in surface water and ground water is available in EPA's STORET database. Concentrations of lead in surface water sediment are available for the Region 5 watershed. Similar data sources on concentrations of lead at air exposure points must also be obtained. Identify all major sources of lead for all media and gather specific information pertaining to loadings to the environment. Some of this information has already been obtained as result of this project but should be verified. Information on the air sources can be obtained from Region and State records. Use the concentration and loadings data to establish source receptor relationships for areas or counties of concern in the Regions. 5 2 Use source receptor relationships to develop exposure assessments and the resulting risk potentials. Compare these data to statistics on incidence of lead related health effects in the area and Region. 5 3 APPENDIX A REGIONAL DATABASE MAPS INDEX TO APPENDIX A PAGE Region I A 1 Region II A 6 Region III A 11 Region IV A 16 Region V A 21 Region VI A 26 Region VII A 31 Region VIII A 36 Region IX A 41 Region X A 46 LOCATION OF SOURCES IN REGION 1 EMITTING LEAD TO THE ATMOSPHERE AIRS SOURCES BY SIC CODE 3229. GLASS 3331 PRIMARY COPPER 3341 SECONDARY COPPER 3691 STORAGE BATTERY MISC SOURCE AIRS/DUN BRADSTREET RECEIVERS AND GENERATORS IN EPA REGION 1 HANDLING LEAD CONTAINING WASTE WASTE RECEIVERS IN TONS 7000 5000 WASTE GENERATORS IN TONS 200000 30000 SOURCE BRS SUPERFUND SITES IN EPA REGION 1 WHERE LEAD WAS FOUND + + + + + SOURCE SNAP POTW AND OTHER FACILITES IN EPA REGION 1 EMITTING LEAD INTO SURFACE WATER o o 8 O o PCS POTWS a 8 AVG LBS/YR 50000 o 200 O o o PCS DIRECT 88 AVG LBS/YR 700 o 0 200 SOURCE PCS AND IFD COUNTIES IN REGION I WHERE LEAD CONCENTRATIONS > 15ppb IN DRINIINKING WATER FRDS COUNTIES s LARGE AND MEDIUM SYSTEMS MEDIUM SYSTEMS SOURCE: FRDS/LIST OF 819 CITIES LOCATION OF SOURCES IN REGION 2 EMITTING LEAD TO THE ATMOSPHERE R O 0 AIRS SOURCES BY SIC CODE 2851 INORGANIC PIGMENTS 3229 GLASS 3331 PRIMARY COPPER 3341 SECONDARY COPPER 3356 SOLDER MFG. 3482 AMMUNITION MANUFACTURING 3692 PRIMARY BATTERY MISC SOURCE: AIRS RECEIVERS AND GENERATORS IN EPA REGION 2 HANDLING LEAD CONTAINING WASTE WASTE RECEIVERS IN TONS 80000 30000 WASTE GENERATORS IN TONS 6000000 30000 SOURCE: BRS SUPERFUND SITES IN EPA REGION 2 WHERE LEAD WAS FOUND + t + + + + + 4 + + + + + a + SOURCE SNAP POTW AND OTHER SOURCES IN EPA REGION 2 EMITTING LEAD INTO SURFACE WATER o b o oO ge O o o o of o a o o o o e ou o O 8 o DO o o Oo o PCS DIRECT AVOLBS/YR 7 3000 8 200 PCS POTWS AVG LBS/YR 100000 200 SOURCE: PCS AND IID COUNTIES IN EPA REGION 2 WHERE I LEAD CONCENTRATION > 15 ppb IN DRINKING WATER FRDS COUNTIES LARGE AND MEDIUM SYSTEMS LARGE SYSTEMS MEDIUM SYSTEMS SOURCE: FRDS/LIST OF 819 CITIES LOCATION OF SOURCES IN REGION 3 EMITTING LEAD TO THE ATMOSPHERE AIRS SOURCES BY SIC CODE V 2816 ORGANIC PIGMENTS O 3229 GLASS 3331 PRIMARY COPPER 3341 SECOND ARY COPPER 3691 STORAGE BATTERY MISC 0 x 08 0 a SOURCE: AIRS/DUN BRADSTREET RECEIVERS AND GENERATORS IN EPA REGION 3 HANDLING LEAD CONTAINING WASTE WASTE GENERATORS IN TONS 2000000 30000 WASTE GENERATORS IN TONS 30000 30000 SOURCE: BRS SUPERFUND SITES IN EPA REGION 3 WHERE LEAD WAS FOUND + + + H + 0 + + o 94 o + SOURCE SNAP POTW AND OTHER FACILITIES IN EPA REGION 3 EMITTING LEAD INTO SURFACE WATER o o PCSPOTW AVG LBS/YR O 40000 of 200 o o PCS DIRECT o AVG LBS/YR 8 : o 40000 Oo 8 Oo 200 00 0 go O o D do to o o 8 8 O <00 o 00 8 SOURCE: PCS AND IFD COUNTIES IN EPA REGION 3 WHERE LEAD CONCENTRATION > 15ppb IN DRINKING WATER FRDS COUNTIES LARGE AND MEDIUM SYSTEMS LARGE SYSTEMS MEDIUM SYSTEMS SOURCE: FRDS/LIST OF 819 CITIES LOCATION OF SOURCES IN REGION 4 EMITTING LEAD TO THE ATMOSPHERE 00 AIRS SOURCES BY SIC CODE V 2816 ORGANIC PIGMENTS 3229 GLASS 3331 PRIMARY COPPER 3341 SECONDARY COPPER 369 . STORAGE BATTERY MISC SOURCE AIRS/DUN BRADSTREET RECEIVERS AND GENERATORS IN EPA REGION 4 HANDLING LEAD CONTAINING WASTE o WASTE RECEIVERS IN TONS 200000 30000 WASTE GENERATORS IN TONS 700000 30000 SORUCE BRS POTW AND OTHER FACILITIES IN EPA REGION 4 EMITTING LEAD INTO SURFACE WATER @ o o o of o old o o O o o o o o @ PCS POTWS AVG LBS/YR 20000 200 PCS DIRECT AVG 1BS/YR 30000 200 SOURCE: PCS AND IID COUNTIES IN REGION 4 WHERE LEAD CONCENTRATION > 15ppb IN DRINKING WATER FRDS COUNTIES LARGE AND MEDIUM SYSTEMS LARGE SYSTEMS MEDIUM SYSTEMS SOURCE FRDS/I IST 1 819 CITIES LOCATION OF SOURCES IN REGION 5 EMITTING LEAD TO THE ATMOSPHERE AIRS SOURCES BY SIC CODE V 2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS 3229 Gl ASS 3331 PRIMARY COPPER 3341 SECONDARY COPPER 3691 STORAGE BATTERY A MISC SOURCE AIRS/DUN BRADSTREET RECEIVERS AND GENERATORS IN EPA REGION 5 HANDLING LEAD CONTAINING WASTE WASTE RECEIVERS IN TONS 80000 30000 WASTE GENERATORS IN TONS 300000 30000 SOURCE BRS POTW AND OTHER FACILITIES IN EPA REGION 5 EMITTING LEAD INTO SURFACE WATER . o PCS POTWS AVG LBS/YR 8 D 200000 200 PCS DIRECT AVGIBS/YR 6000 200 SOURCE PCS AND IIID WATER REGION 5 WHERE LEAD CONCENTRATION > 15ppb IN DRINKING SYSTEMS LARGE AND LARGE SYSTEMS MEDIUM SYSTEMS LOCATION OF SOURCES IN REGION 6 EMITTING LEAD TO THE ATMOSPHERE 0 O AIRS SOURCES BY SIC CODE 3229 GLASS 3331 PRIMARY COPPER 3341 SECONDARY COPPER 3691 STORAGE BATTERY MISC SOURCE: AIRS/DUN BRADSTREET RECEIVERS AND GENERATORS IN EPA REGION 6 HANDLING LEAD CONTAINING WASTE l 0 WASTE RECEIVERS IN TONS 70000 o 30000 WASTE GENERATORS IN TONS 2000000 30000 SOURCE: BRS SUPERFUND SITES IN EPA REGION 6 WHERE LEAD WAS FOUND + + SOURCE: SNAP POTW AND OTHER FACILITIES IN EPA REGION 6 EMITTING LEAD INTO SURFACE WATER Q o o o o o o @ o o 8 o Oo 00 o o To o @ 8 09 PCS DIRECT AVG LBS/YR 6 o 3000 200 PCS POTWS AVG1BS/YR 40000 200 o o SOURCE: PCS AND III COUNTIES IN EPA REGION6 WHERE LEAD CONCENTRATION > 15 ppb IN DRINKING WATER FRDS COUNTIES LARGE AND MEDIUM SYSTEMS MEDIUM SYSTEMS SOURCE: FRDS/LIST OF 819 CITIES LOCATION OF SOURCES IN REGION 7 EMITTING LEAD TO THE ATMOSPHERE 8 O DO H AIRS SOURCES BY SIC CODE 3229 GLASS 3331 PRIMARY COPPER 3341 SECONDARY COPPER 3691 STORAGE BATTERY MISC SOURCE: AIRS/DUN BRADSTREET RECEIVERS AND GENERATORS IN EPA REGION 7 HANDLING LEAD CONTAINING WASTE WASTE GENERATORS IN TONS 60000 30000 WASTE RECEIVERS IN TONS 60000 30000 SOURCE: BRS SUPERFUND SITES IN EPA REGION 7 WHERE LEAD WAS FOUND + + + + + + + SOURCE: SNAP POTW AND OTHER FACILITIES IN EPA REGION 7 EMITTING LEAD INTO SURFACE WATER 8 o 90 o o O o O o Q of red M o o o . o o 8 o o ' PCS DIRECT o o AVG LBS/YR o 20000 200 PCS POTWS o a AVG LBS/YR 9 30000 200 SOURCE PCS AND IFD COUNTIES IN EPA REGION 7 WHERE LEAD CONCENTRATION > 15ppb IN DRINKING WATER FRDS COUNTIES LARGE AND MEDIUM SYSTEMS MEDIUM SYSTEMS SOURCE FRDS/LIST OF 819 CITIES LOCATION OF SOURCES IN REGION 8 EMITTING LEAD TO THE ATMOSPHERE 0 AIRS SOURCES BY SIC CODE 3229 GIASS 3331 PRIMARY COPPER 3341 SECONDARY COPPER 3691 STORAGE BATILRY O SOURCE: AIRS/DUN BRADSTREET RECEIVERS AND GENERATORS IN EPA REGION 8 HANDLING LEAD CONTAINING WASTE WASTE GENERATORS IN TONS 400000 30000 SOURCE: BRS SUPERFUND SITES IN EPA REGION 8 WHERE LEAD WAS FOUND + + SOURCE: SNAP POTW AND OTHER FACILITIES IN EPA REGION 8 EMITTING LEAD INTO SURFACE WATER o o o o O o o o o PCS DIRECTS AVG LBS/YR 9 o 600 200 PCS POTWS o AVGILBS/YR o 20000 O 200 SOURCE PCS AND IFD COUNTIES IN EPA REGION 8 WHERE LEAD CONCENTRATION > I 5ppb IN DRINKING WATER FRDS COUNTIES LARGE SYSTEMS MEDIUM SYSTEMS SOURCE FRDS LIST OF 819 CITIES LOCATION OF SOURCES IN REGION 9 EMITTING LEAD TO THE ATMOSPHERE O AIRS SOURCES BY SIC CODE 3229 GLASS 3331 PRIMARY COPPER 3341 SECONDARY COPPER 3691 STORAGE BATTERY MISC SOURCE: AIRS/DUN HRADSTREET RECEIVERS AND GENERATORS IN EPA REGION 9 HANDLING LEAD CONTAINING WASTE o WASTE RECEIVERS IN TONS 200000 o 30000 WASTE GENER A TORS IN TONS 900000 30000 0 SOURCE BRS SUPERFUND SITES IN EPA REGION 9 WHERE LEAD WAS FOUND + + + + SOURCE: SNAP POTW AND OTHER FACILITIES IN EPA REGION 9 EMITTING LEAD INTO SURFACE WATER o o 84 8 B o PCS POTWS AVG LBS/YR 70000 o 200 8 PCS DIRECT 00 8 AVG LBS/YR O 8 4000 200 o SOURCE PCSANDHD COUNTIES IN EPA REGION 9 WHERE LEAD CONCENTRATION > 15ppb IN DRINKING WATER FRDS COUNTIES LARGE AND MEDIUM SYSTEMS LARGE SYSTEMS MEDIUM SYSTEMS SOURCE: FRDSALIST OF819CITIES LOCATION OF SOURCES IN REGION 10 EMITTING LEAD TO THE ATMOSPHERE AIRS SOURCES BY SIC CODE 3229 GLASS 3331 PRIMARY COPPER 3341 SECONDARY COPPER 8 3691 STORAGE BATTERY MISC O SOURCE AIRS/DUN BRADSTREET RECEIVERS AND GENERATORS IN EPA REGION 10 HANDLING LEAD CONTAINING WASTE WASTE GENERATORS IN TONS 3000000 300000 1 SOURCE BRS SUPERFUND SITES IN EPA REGION 10 WHERE LEAD WAS FOUND + + + + + SOURCE SNAP POTW AND OTHER FACILITIES IN EPA REGION 10 EMITTING LEAD INTO SURFACE WATER PCS POTWS AVG LBS/YR 30000 200 PCS DIRECT AVG LBS/YR 0 300 o 200 o 8 o o o 06 o 9 0 SOURCE: PCS AND IFD COUNTIES IN EPA REGION 10 WHERE LEAD CONCENTRATIONS > 15ppb IN DRINKING WATER FRDS COUNTIES LARGE AND MEDIUM SYSTEMS LARGE SYSTEMS MEDIUM SYSTEMS SOURCE: FRDS/LIST OF 819 CITITES APPENDIX B LEAD CLUSTER MAPS AND DATA SUMMARIES INDEX TO APPENDIX B PAGE Region I B 1 Region II B 21 Region III B 41 Region IV B 61 Region V B 81 Region VI B 102 Region VII B 124 Region VIII B 144 Region IX B 164 Region X B 185 REGION 1 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER O + ESSEX MA FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP + BRSG + BRSR + PCSD + POTW FIPS Code Region State County 25009 1 MA ESSEX Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database LYNN W W T P Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOUTH ESSEX S D Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GREATER LAWRENCE SD Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HAVERHILL WTP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS GLOUCESTER Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MARBLEHEAD Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEWBURYPORT WPCF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS AMESBURY WATER POLL ABAT FAC Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS IPSWICH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS REVERE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SALEM Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NAHANT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SWAMPSCOTT WPCP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Andover Water Dept. Andover Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Saugus Water Dept. Saugus Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Rowl ey Water Dept. Rowle ey Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Marblehead W S Comm. Marblehead Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Manchester Water Dept. Manchester Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Haverhill Water Division Haverhill Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Swampscott Water Dept. Swampscott Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Peabody Water Dept. Peabody Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Ipswich Water Division Ipswich Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Georgetown Water Dept. Georgetown Drinking Water med. 319 EPA List Lynnfield Water District. Lynnfield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Merrimac Water Dept. Merrimac Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Newburyport Water Dept. Newburyport Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Wenham Water Dept. Wenham Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Topsfield Water Dept. Topsfield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Gloucester Water Dept. Gloucester Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Rockport Water Division Rockport Drinking Water med. 319 EPA List GNB INDUSTRIAL BTRY COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS ROLLS BATTERY ENGINEERING INC Air AIRS/DUNS CRYSTAL GALWAY USA LTD INC Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.09 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.12 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.14 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.24 >75,000 0.19 Total Population 670017 Total Families 175243 Median Income 47968 Average Income 52934 Per Capita Income . 17007 B 2 REGION 1 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW WORCESTER + O MA O 4 + + + FIPS Code Region State County 25027 1 MA WORCESTER Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database WEST FITCHBURG W W T F Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EAST FITCHBURG W W T F Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EAST FITCHBURG WTF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MILFORD W W T F Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GARDNER W P C F Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WEBSTER W W T F Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS LEOMINSTER STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOUTHBRIDGE S T P Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TEMPLETON W W T F Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ATHOL WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GRAFTON WWT: P Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NORTHBRIDGE WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OPEN NUMBER Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SHREWSBURY WPCF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS worcester D.P.W. Worcester Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Hopkinton Water Dept. Hopkinton Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Southboro Water Dept. Southboro Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Westboro Water Dept. Westboro Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Milford Water Company Milford Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Webster Water Department Webster Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Gardner Water Dept. Gardner Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Hopedale Water Dept. Hopedale Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List winchendon Water Dept. Winchendon Drinking Water med. 319 EPA List Town of Holden Holden Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Ashburnham Water Dept. Ashburnham Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Leominster Water Div. Leominster Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Templeton Water Dept. Templeton Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Athol Water Division Athol Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Spencer Water Dept. Spencer Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Fitchburg Water Dept. Fitchburg Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List WYMAN GORDON COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS ALVIN PRODUCTS INC Air AIRS/DUNS GALILEO ELECTRO OPTICS CORP Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.10 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.14 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.16 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.25 >75,000 0.12 Total Population 709494 Total Families 184271 Median Income 43602 Average Income 47612 Per Capita income 15111 B 4 REGION 1 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW HAMPDEN + MA FIPS Code Region State County 25013 1 MA HAMPDEN Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database SPRINGFIELD REGIONAL WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CHICOPEE W P C Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOLYOKE WPC F Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WEST SPRINGFIELD Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PALMER WPCF Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS SOUTH HADLEY WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WESTFIELD W P C P Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Chicopee Water Dept. Chicopee Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Springfield Mun. W.W. Springfield Drinking Water large 819 EPA List West springfield Water Dist. West Springfield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List East Longmesdow Water Dept. East Longmeadow Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Longmesdow Water Dept. Longmesdow Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Agawam Water Supply Agawam Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Ludlow Water Dept. Ludlow Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Westfield Water Dept. Westfield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Wilbraham Water Dept. Wilbraham Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Holyoke Water Works Holyoke Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List BAY STATE REFINING CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS SPRING RECYCLING INC Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.13 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.14 10 14 0.07 25.35,000 0.16 15 64 0.64 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.15 50 75,000 0.24 >75,000 0.11 Total Population 456749 Total Families 118809 Median Income 40267 Average Income . 44156 Per Capita Income 14161 B 6 REGION 1 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER 0 + MIDDLESEX O + + MA + FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP + BRSG + + to BRSR 0 PCSD POTW + + + + + FIPS Code Region State County 25017 1 MA MIDDLESEX Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database LOWELL REG WATER AND W W UTIL Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOMERVILLE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MARLBOROUGH EASTERLY W W F Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HUDSON Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MARLBORO VPCF WEST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS AYER W W T P Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BILLERICA LETCHWORTH AVE WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Medford Water Dept. Medford Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Waltham Water Div. Waltham Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Framingham Water Div. Framingham Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Maiden Water Division Malden Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Lowell Water Dept. Lowell Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Somerville Water Dept. Somerville Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Ashland Water Dept. Ashland Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Lexington Water Sewer Lexington Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Stoneham Water Dept. Stoneham Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Weston Water Dept. Weston Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Watertown Water Division Watertown Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Holliston Water Dept. Holliston Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Lincoln Water Dept. Lincoln Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Artington Water Dept. Arlington Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Pepperell Water Dept. Pepperett Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Melrose Water Dept. Metrose Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Mariboro Public works Martboro Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Everett Water Dept. Everett Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Belmont Water Dept. Belmont Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Woburn Water Dept. Woburn Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Wakefield Water Dept. Wakefield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Wellesley Water Division Wellesley Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Wilmington Water Dept. Wilmington Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Maynard D.P.Y. Water Div. Maynard Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List North Reading Water Dept. North Reading Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List CENTRAL SERVICES CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS HARVCO ALLOYS INC Air AIRS/OUNS BAY STATE SMELTING CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS SOMERVILLE SMELTING CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS SCHAWBEL CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS ATLANTIC BATTERY CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS KEYSTONE BATTERY CORP Air AIRS/DUNS ELECTROCHEM INC Air AIRS/DUNS NEW ENGLAND LEAD BURNING CO Air AIRS/OUNS Materials Technology Laboratory US Army Watertown Superfund Site SNAP Nyanza Chemical Waste Dump Asnland Superfund Site SNAP Natick Laboratory Army Research, D E Cntr Natick ucerfund Site SHAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.06 <15,000 0.07 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.09 10 14 0.05 25 35,000 0.12 15 64 0.70 35 50,000 0.18 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.28 75,000 0.27 Total Population 1391321 Total Families 345964 Median income 57398 Average income . 62578 Per Capita Income 19526 3 8 REGION 1 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + + + NORFOLK FRDS COUNTIES AIRS MA SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 25021 1 MA NOR FOLK Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database FRANKLIN STP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS Brookline Water Dept. Brookline Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Quincy Water Dept. quincy Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Norfolk MA Corr. Institute Norfolk Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Milton Water Dept. Milton Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Norwood Water Dept Norwood Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Wrentham Water Division Wrentham Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Bellingham Water Dept. Bellingham Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Medway Water Dept. Medway Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Canton Water Division OPM Canton Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Needham Water Division Needham Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List NEW ENGLAND SMELTING WORKS, INC Air AIRS/DUNS BOSTON RECOVERY COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS PURE LAB OF AMERICA Air AIRS/DUNS POWER SONIC CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS SERPENTINO STAINED LEADED GL Air AIRS/DUNS Blackburn Union Privileges Walpole Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.06 <15,000 0.06 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.08 10 14 0.05 25 35,000 0.10 15 64 0.69 35 50,000 0.17 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.29 >75,000 0.29 Total Population . 633472 Total Families 160963 Median Income 59303 Average Income 63697 Per Capita Income 19815 B 10 REGION 1 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG 8 BRSR + PCSD POTW + ++ of + O BRISTOL MA FIPS Code Region State County 25005 1 MA BRISTOL Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database NEW BEDFORD WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FALL RIVER STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TAUNTON W W T P Surface Water POTW IFO/PCS ATTLEBORO WPCF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NORTH ATTLEBOROUGH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FAIRHAVEN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOMERSET Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS Dennis Water District Dennis Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Dartmouth Water Sewer Dartmouth Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Fairhaven Water Dept. Fairhaven Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Acushnet Water Dept. Acushnet Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Norton Water Dept. Norton Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS Atlas Tack Corp. Fairhaven Superfund Site SNAP Shpack Landfill Norton/Attleboro Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.13 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.25 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.21 >75,000 0.08 Total Population 506202 Total Families 135592 Median Income 39722 Average Income 43364 Per Capita Income 13917 B 12 REGION 1 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + + FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG PROVIDENCE BRSR PCSD RI + POTW FIPS Code Region State County 44007 1 RI PROVIDENCE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database NARRAGANSETT BAY COMMISSION Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BLACKSTONE VALLEY DIST. COMM. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CRANSTON WWTF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CENTRAL FALLS Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EAST PROVIDENCE WWTF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SMITHFIELD WWTF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Pascoag Fire District Pascoag Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List TECHNICAL MATERIALS INC Air AIRS/OUNS B 0 ASSOCIATES INC Air AIRS/DUNS KELLEY METAL CORP Air AIRS/DUNS BOLIDEN METECH INC Air AIRS/OUNS COPPER INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS AMERICA COOKSON INC Air AIRS/OUNS KELLEY METAL CO Air AIRS/DUNS GTE PRODUCTS CORP DEL CORP Air AIRS/DUNS Davis GSR Landfill Glocester Superfund Site SNAP Landfill Resource Recovery, Inc. L RR North Smithfield Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.14 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.16 50 75,000 0.18 >75,000 0.09 Total Population . 596340 Total Families 151680 Median Income 36446 Average Income . 41442 Per Capita Income 12990 B 14 REGION 1 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER O FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD is POTW HARTFORD O CT FIPS Code Region State County 09003 1 CT HARTFORD Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database HARTFORD MDC STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MDC/EAST HARTFORD TRMT PLANT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ENFIELD STP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS ROCKY HILL WPCP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MANCHESTER STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BRISTOL, MAIN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BRISTOL, FORRESTVILLE Surface Water POTW [FD/PCS SOUTHINGTON WPCP Surface Water POTW [FD/PCS PLAINVILLE STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOUTH WINDSOR STP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS FARMINGTON STP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS GLASTONBURY WPCF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SIMSBURY WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Manchester Water Dept. Manchester Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List THAMES RIVER RECYCLING INC Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.08 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.10 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.12 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.21 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.27 >75,000 0.22 Total Population 853196 Total Families . 224706 Median Income 52795 Average Income 57583 Per Capita Income 19733 B 16 REGION 1 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER O FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP + BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW NEW HAVEN CT + FIPS Code Region State County 09009 1 CT NEW HAVEN Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database WATERBURY STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WEST HAVEN STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEW HAVEN EAST SHORE STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NAUGATUCK SEWAGE TREATMENT PLA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MERIDEN STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NORTH HAVEN STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ANSONIA STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MILFORD BEAVER BROOK TP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DERBY STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BRANFORD STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CHESHIRE STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEW HAVEN BOULEVARD STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEW HAVEN EAST STREET STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MILFORD GULF PD STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS STATE RAIL FABRICATING CO Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS PENTA BATTERY Air AIRS/DUNS Nutmeg Valley Road Wolcott Superfund Site SNAP population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.10 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.12 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.14 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.15 50 75,000 0.25 >75,000 0.17 Total Population 804141 Total Families 209781 Median Income 45354 Average Income . 50247 Per Capita Income . 16752 B 18 REGION 1 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER FRDS COUNTIES O AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD O O POTW + + FAIRFIELD CT + O+ O + 0 + t FIPS Code Region State County 09001 1 CT FAIRFIELD Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database BRIDGEPORT_WEST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DANBURY WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BRIDGEPORT EAST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS STRATFORD STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NORWALK STP Surface Water POTW IFO/PCS STAMFORD STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FAIRFIELD STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GREENWICH CENTRAL STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WESTPORT STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SHELTON STP RIVERDALE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DARIEN STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS METAL REPROCESSING COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS BOLIDEN INC Air AIRS/DUNS NORTHEASTERN METALS CORP Air AIRS/OUNS ROYAL METALS CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS TRELLEBORG CORP Air AIRS/DUNS SURF METAL CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS DURACELL HOLDINGS CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS DURACELL INC Air AIRS/DUNS ENERGY RESEARCH COOPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS STAINED LEADED GLASS Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.07 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.08 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.08 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.16 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.25 75,000 0.36 Total Population 827637 Total Families . 218993 Median Income . 64590 Average Income 73226 Per Capita Income 24726 B 20 REGION 2 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + 8 ++ + BERGEN NJ + + H + + + + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES + AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD + POTW FIPS Code Region State County 34003 2 NJ BERGEN Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database BERGEN CNTY STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NORTHWEST BERGEN COUNTY UA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS RIDGEWOOD VILLAGE OF WPCP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FAIRLAWN, BOROUGH OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JOINT MTG RUTH E.RUTH CARL. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NORTH ARLINGTON LYNOHURST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Lyndhurst Water Dept. Lyndhurst Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List North Arlington Water Dept. North Artington Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List S HELLER SONS INC Air AIRS/DUNS S HELLER SONS INC Air AIRS/DUNS DANTEC ELECTRONICS INC Air AIRS/DUNS DANTEC ELECTRONICS INC Air AIRS/DUNS CRYSTAL MANUFACTURING CORP Air AIRS/DUNS CRYSTAL MANUFACTURING CORP Air AIRS/DUNS Curcio Scrap Metal, Inc. Saddle Brook Twp Superfund Site SNAP Maywood Chemical Co. Maywood/Rochelle Pk Superfund Site SNAP Ventron/Velsicol Wood Ridge Borough Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.06 <15,000 0.04 5 9 0.05 15 25,000 0.07 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.10 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.18 65+ 0.15 50 75,000 0.26 >75,000 0.34 Total Population 811704 Total Families 221237 Median Income . 62323 Average Income . 68252 Per Capita Income . 21841 B 22 REGION 2 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + O + + + of + ESSEX NJ + + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES + AIRS 4 + + SNAP + + BRSG 4m + BRSR + PCSD + POTW O+ + + + FIPS Code Region State County 34013 2 NJ ESSEX Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database PASSAIC VALLEY SEWERAGE COMM Surface Water POTW [FD/PCS ORANGE CITY OF DPW Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CALDWELL STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS VERONA WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ESSEX COUNTY SANITORIUM Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Newark Water Dept. Newark Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Fairfield Water Dept. Fairfield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Belleville Water Dept. Beileville Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Montclair Water Bureau Montclair Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List West Caldwell Water Dept. West Caldwell Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Glen Ridge Water Dept. Glen Ridge Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Cedar Grove Water Dept. Cedar Grove Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Bloomfield Water Dept. Bloomfield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List COPPER TECHNOLOGY INC Air AIRS/DUNS ENESSCO INC Air AIRS/DUNS CONNELL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP Air AIRS/OUNS Caldwell Trucking Co. Fairfield Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.17 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.13 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.13 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.17 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.21 >75,000 0.18 Total Population . 778091 Total Families 191286 Median Income 47621 Average Income . 54832 Per Capita Income 17342 B 24 REGION 2 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER O + + + + t + t + HUDSON + It + NJ + + + + + O O + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP + + BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW + FIPS Code Region State County 34017 2 NJ HUDSON Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database BAYONNE STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WEST NEW YORK Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JERSEY CITY STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS KEARNY, TOWN OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JERSEY CITY STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NORTH BERGEN DPW Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Dept. of Water Jersey City Jersey City Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Bayonne Water Dept. Bayonne Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Hoboken W. Dept. Hoboken Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Kearny Water Dept. Kearny Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List M PASHELINSKY SONS INC Air . AIRS/DUNS INTERSTATE METALS SEPARATING Air AIRS/DUNS XEARNY SMELTING REFINING Air AIRS/DUNS A LEAD WIRE CORP Air AIRS/DUNS PJP Landfill Jersey City Superfund Site SNAP Syncon Resins South Kearny Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.20 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.69 35 50,000 0.20 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.17 >75,000 0.08 Total Population 566653 Total Families 139979 Median Income 32212 Average Income . 37080 Per Capita Income 11742 B 26 REGION 2 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + + + + + + + + MIDDLESEX LEGEND NJ FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR O PCSD POTW + FIPS Code Region State County 34023 2 NJ MIDDLESEX Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database NEW BRUNSWICK CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PERTH AMBOY, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CARTERET STP , BOROUGH OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OLD BRIDGE TOWNSHIP SA Surface Water POTW [FD/PCS LITTLE FALLS STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MIDDLESEX COUNTY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOUTH BRUNSWICK TOWNSHIP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS KEASBEY STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Old Bridge MUA Old Bridge Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Monroe TWP MUA Monroe Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List South Amboy Water Dept. South Ambay Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List EASCO CORPORATION Air AIRS/OUNS R F E INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS C P CHEMICALS INC Air AIRS/OUNS FEDERAL METALS ALLOYS CO Air AIRS/DUNS RADIOGRAPHIC RECLAIMERS Air AIRS/OUNS GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS CPS/Madison Industries Old Bridge Township Superfund Site SNAP Horseshoe Road Sayreville Superfund Site SNAP Fried Industries East Brunswick Twp Superfund Site SNAP South Brunswick Landfill South Brunswick Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 15,000 0.06 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.08 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.11 15 64 0.70 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.32 >75,000 0.21 Total Population 667984 Total Families 174332 Median Income 51816 Average Income 55868 Per Capita Income . 18276 B 28 REGION 2 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER MONMOUTH + NJ LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW + O + FIPS Code Region State County 34025 2 NJ MONMOUTH Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database MONMOUTH CO BAYSHORE OUTFALL Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOUTH MONMOUTH REGIONAL S.A. Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS NORTHEAST MONMOUTH COUNTY RSA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TNSA WATER POLLUTION CONTROL Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MIDDLETOWN SEWERAGE AUTHORITY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LONG BRANCH SEWERAGE AUTHORITY Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS ASBURY PARK STP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS BAYSHORE REGIONAL SA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FREEHOLD, BOROUGH OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PINE BROOK STP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS NEPTUNE STP, TOWNSHIP OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Mariboro MUA Mariboro Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Shorelands Water Co., Inc. Shorelands Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List ZSCHIEGNER REFINING INC Air AIRS/DUNS Burnt Fly Bog Marlboro Township Superfund Site SNAP Imperial oil Co.,Inc./Champion Chemicals Morganville Superfund Site SNAP Navel Wespons Station Earte Site A Colts Neck Superfund Site SNAP Monitor Devices/Intercircuits Inc Wall Township Superfund Site SNAP Waldick Aerospace Devices, Inc. Wall Township Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.08 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.10 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.12 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.19 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.24 >75,000 0.27 Total Population . 562541 Total Families 148547 Median Income 53624 Average Income 59620 Per Capita Income . 18854 B 30 REGION 2 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + NEW YORK NY + + O + 4 + t + + + + + + + LEGEND to FRDS COUNTIES + + AIRS + + + 0+ SNAP 4 BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 36061 2 NY NEW YORK Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database NORTH RIVER WPC Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WARD ISLAND WPC Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS NEW YORK CITY DWR DYCKMAN ST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS AMERICAN WIRE FINDINGS CO Air AIRS/DUNS DENNIS METALS INC Air AIRS/DUNS E B L REFINING SALES Air AIRS/DUNS FOURSOME INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS HELLER A METALS CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS HOLLANDER REFINING CO Air AIRS/DUNS s W METAL TRADING INC Air AIRS/DUNS S K TROHN REFINING CO Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.05 <15,000 0.23 5 9 0.04 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.04 25 35,000 0.13 15 64 0.73 35 50,000 0.14 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.14 >75,000 0.20 Total Population 1475132 Total Families . 298530 Median Income . 39509 Average Income 51310 Per Capita Income 19189 B 32 REGION 2 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER to LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES + + AIRS 0 SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW O + + + + + + KINGS NY + FIPS Code Region State County 36047 2 NY KINGS Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database NEWTOWN CREEK WPC Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CONEY ISLAND WPC Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OWLS HEAD WPC Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEW YORK CITY DEPT OF WATER RE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BELMONT METALS INC Air AIRS/OUNS KAYE REFINING CORP Air AIRS/DUNS NEY SMELTING REFINING CO Air AIRS/OUNS NOW FERROUS PROCESSING CORP Air AIRS/DUNS STEELMET INC Air AIRS/OUNS VIDEO POWER INTERNATIONAL Air AIRS/OUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.30 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.20 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.15 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.16 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.13 >75,000 0.05 Total Population 2300797 Total Families 555220 Median Income 25470 Average Income 30758 Per Capita Income 9766 B 34 REGION 2 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + O ot + + NASSAU NY + + + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP + BRSG O BRSR PCSD ++ POTW + FIPS Code Region State County 36059 2 NY NASSAU Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database NCSD R, BAY PARK STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NCSO 3 CEDAR CREEK WPCP surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GLEN COVE C WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LONG BEACH c STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GREAT NECK WPC DISTRICT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PORT WASHINGTON WPCP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS OYSTER BAY WPCP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BELGRAVE WPC DISTRICT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS VILLAGE OF FREEPORT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Mineola Village Mineala Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Rockville Centre Village Rockville Centre Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Williston Park village Williston Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List PIONEER REFINING Air AIRS/OUNS KONICA IMAGING U A INC Air AIRS/OUNS DELTA CONCEPTS CORP Air AIRS/DUNS Syosset Landfill Oyster Say Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.06 <15,000 0.05 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.07 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.10 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.18 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.29 >75,000 0.30 Total Population 1296479 Total Families 346692 Median income 61138 Average Income 67882 Per Capita Income 21624 B 36 REGION 2 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS WESTCHESTER SNAP BRSG BRSR NY PCSD + POTW O ++ o + + 8 + H + + FIPS Code Region State County 36119 2 NY WESTCHESTER Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database YONKERS JOINT WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MAMARONECK SANITARY so WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEW ROCHELLE S.D. Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS PORT CHESTER SANITARY 0 WMTP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS PEEKSKILL SANITARY S.D. Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS OSSINING SANITARY SO WWTP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS VILLAGE OF TARRYTOWN Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS VILLAGE OF NORTH TARRYTOWN Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS VILLAGE OF OSSINING Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Yonkers Yonkers Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Mount Vernon Mount Vernon Drinking Water large 819 EPA List New Rochelle Water New Rochelle Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Westchester Co. WD 3 Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Tarrytown Water Supply Tarrytown Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List North Tarrytown Village North Tarrytown Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Briarcliff Nanor Village Briarcliff Manor Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Hawthorne Improvement Dist. Hawthorne Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Westchester Joint Water Westchester Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Scarsdale Water Dept. Scarsdale Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List White Plains City White Plains Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Larchmont Village Larchmont Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Harrison WD NO1 Harrison Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Cortlandt Consolidated WD Cortlandt Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Elmsford Village Elmaford Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Yorktown Water Storage Yorktown Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Pleasantville Water Dist. Pleasantville Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Irvington Water Supply Irvington Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Mount Pleasant MD Valhal Mount Pleasant Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Peekskill City Peekskill Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Greenburgh Consolidated Greenburgh Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List GAR NET INC Air AIRS/DUNS VARTA BATTERIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS BURLINGTON BATTERY CORP Air AIRS/DUNS AWARD WINNER CORP Air AIRS/OUNS ROHLFS STINED LEADED GL STUDIO Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.08 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.09 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.11 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.17 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.24 >75,000 0.32 Total Population 875055 Total Families 227814 Median Income . 62175 Average Income 71525 Per Capita Income 22801 B 38 REGION 2 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + 8 LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS ERIE SNAP BRSG BRSR NY PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 36029 2 NY ERIE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database BIRD ISLAND WWTP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS ERIE COUNTY SEWER DISTRICT 4 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS AMHERST SD 16 STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TOMAHANDA C PUMP STATION Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TONAWANDA T SD 2 STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ERIE COUNTY SEWER DIST 2 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EAST AURORA v WW TRT FAC Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TOWN OF AMHERST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TOWN OF CHEEKTOWAGA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TOWN OF CHEEKTOWAGA UNION ROAD Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Buffalo City Div. of Water Buffalo Drinking Water large 819 EPA List G C F INC Air AIRS/DUNS MP BATTERIES INC Air AIRS/OUNS Pfohl Brothers Landfill Cheektowaga Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.15 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.15 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.25 65+ 0.15 50 75,000 0.20 >75,000 0.08 Total Population 964534 Total Families 253222 Median Income 35396 Average Income 38935 Per Capita Income 12997 B 40 REGION 3 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER ALLEGHENY PA + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES + + AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region state County 42003 3 PA ALLEGHENY Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database USS IRVIN PLANT DRAVOSBURG Surface Water direct PCS ALLEGHENY COUNTY SANITARY AUTH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MCKEESPORT MUN.AUTH.WTR.POLL.C Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UPPER ALLEGHENY JT SAN AUTH WT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MCCANDLESS TWP SAN AUTH PINE C Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BETHEL, BORO OF MUN AUTH. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CORAOPOLIS MUN. SANITARY AUTH. surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PLEASANT HILLS AUTHORITY WASTE Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS W MIFFLIN BORO THOMPSON RUN ST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PENN HILLS TOWNSHIP SANDY CREE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ALLEGHENY VALLEY JOINT SEWER A Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MONTOUR RUN MOON TWP. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Edgeworth Borough Municipal Edgeworth Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List City of Duquesne Water Duquesne Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List ALUMINUM SMELT AND REFINING Air AIRS/DUNS AMERICAN HEAVY METALS INDS Air AIRS/DUNS AMG RESOURCES CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS EAGLE IRON AND METALS INC Air AIRS/DUNS INDUSTRIAL DIAMOND POWDERS Air AIRS/DUNS FREEWAY BATTERIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS SIMON BATTERY RESEARCH CORP Air AIRS/DUNS GENERAL BATTERY CORPORATION Air AIRS/OUNS GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS HAMMOND LEAD PRODUCTS INC Air AIRS/DUNS Resin Disposal Jefferson Borough Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.06 <15,000 0.13 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.15 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.16 15 64 0.63 35 50,000 0.25 65+ 0.17 50 75,000 0.21 >75,000 0.09 Total Population 1323194 Total Families 354350 Median Income . 37418 Average Income 41359 Per Capita Income 14464 B 42 REGION 3 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER of + BUCKS PA + LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES + + AIRS + + SNAP + BRSG BRSR + PCSD 0 POTW + + FIPS Code Region State County 42017 3 PA BUCKS Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database LOWER BUCKS COUNTY JT. MUN. AU Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WARMINSTER TWP. MUN. AUTH. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MORRISVILLE BOROUGH MUN AUTH S Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PENN RIDGE WASTE WATER TREATME Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LOWER BUCKS COUNTY JT. MUN. AU Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FALLS TOWNSHIP AUTHORITY WATER Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CHALFONT NEW BRITAIN JOINT SEW Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS QUAKERTOWN STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Lower Buck Co. Joint Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Middletown TWP Middletown Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List TWP. of Falls Authority Falls Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Newtown Artesian Water Co. Newtown Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List FEN GARR INC Air AIRS/DUNS COMPLIANCE RECYCL INDS OF PA Air AIRS/DUNS TUBE CITY INC Air AIRS/OUNS GRANT MANUFACTURING ALLOYING Air AIRS/DUNS Cosden Chemical Coatings Corp. Beverly Superfund Site SNAP Revere Chemical Co. Nockamixon Township Superfund Site SNAP n Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.08 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.11 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.15 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.27 >75,000 0.15 Total Population 528737 Total Families . 142430 Median Income . 45899 Average Income 49748 Per Capita Income 16115 B 44 REGION 3 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER O MONTGOMERY + PA + + + + + LEGEND ++ FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP + + BRSG BRSR + PCSD + + POTW + FIPS Code Region State County 42091 3 PA MONTGOMERY Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database POTTSTOWN BORO COUNCIL WITR.TR Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UPPER MORELAND HATBORO SEWAGE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NORRISTOWN BOROUGH WASTEWATER surface Water POTW IFO/PCS UPPER MERION TWP. AUTH TROUT R Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MONTGOMERY COUNTY SEWER AUTHOR Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ABINGTON TWP COMM WWTR TRTMT P Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EAST NORRITON PLYMOUTH JOINT S Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS AMBLER BOROUGH SOUTH PLANT Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS AMBLER WASTE WATER TREATMENT P Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HATFIELD TWP. MUN. AUTH. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UPPER GWYNEDD TOWNSHIP AUTHORI Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LANSDALE SEWAGE TREATMENT PLAN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BERKS MONTGOMERY MUNICIPAL AUT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UPPER GWYNEDO TOWAMENCIN MUN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HAMMONDS MILL CO Air AIRS/DUNS DUDLIK FINISHING INC Air AIRS/DUNS AG MET REFINING CORP Air AIRS/DUNS ALLIANT TECHSYSTEMS INC Air AIRS/DUNS PREMIERE TECHNOLOGIES GROUP Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS C 0 CHARTER POWER SYSTEMS Air AIRS/DUNS Crater Resources/Keystone Coke/Alan Wood Upper Merion Twp Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.06 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.11 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.14 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.15 50 75,000 0.26 >75,000 0.19 Total Population 662882 Total Families 177741 Median Income 50994 Average Income 56431 Per Capita Income 18455 B 46 REGION 3 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER ++ O + + + ++ PHILADELPHI + + O PA H + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 42101 3 PA PHILADELPHIA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database PHILA WATER DEPT . NE STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PHILA WATER DEPT S.W. STP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS s. E. WTR.POLL.CONT.PLT,PHILA. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS 104 REFINERS INC Air AIRS/DUNS EAST COAST REYCLING INC Air AIRS/DUNS FRANKLIN SMELTING REFINING Air AIRS/DUNS GARFIELD REFINING CO Air AIRS/DUNS GARFIELD REFINING COMPANY Air AIRS/OUNS HALPERN COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS MILL SUPPORT TECHNOLOGIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS NATIONWIDE RECYCLERS INC Air AIRS/DUNS NEW BRIDGE DEVELOPMENT COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS ACME ALLOYS Air AIRS/OUNS ANTHRACITE BATTERY MFRS Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.26 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.19 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.64 35 50,000 0.20 65+ 0.15 50 75,000 0.14 75,000 0.05 Total Population 1608656 Total Families 384700 Median Income 30056 Average Income 34638 Per Capita Income . 11679 B 48 REGION 3 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER T t + CHESTER tt + PA + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 42029 3 PA CHESTER source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database DOWNINGTOWN AREA REGIOINAL AUT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS VALLEY FORGE SEWER AUTHORITY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS COATESVILLE CITY AUTHORITY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WEST GOSHEN SEWAGE TREATMENT P Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PHOENIXVILLE BOROUGH STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS West Chester Area Munic Auth. West Chester Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List City of Coatesville Auth. Coatesville Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List MODENA FOUNDRY CO Air AIRS/OUNS PLATA NET RECOVERY LTD Air AIRS/DUNS MATTHEY JOHNSON INC Air AIRS/OUNS CELL CON INC Air AIRS/OUNS UNITED STATES ACCUMULATOR CO Air AIRS/OUNS HAMMOND LEAD PRODUCTS INC Air AIRS/OUNS Foote Mineral Co. East Whiteland Twp Superfund Site SNAP Kimberton Site Kimberton Borough Superfund Site SNAP Strasburg Landfill Newlin Township Superfund Site SNAP Walsh Landfill Honeybrook Township Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.09 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.11 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.13 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.26 >75,000 0.20 Total Population 379068 Total Families 99409 Median Income 46766 Average Income 50634 Per Capita Income 15930 B 50 REGION 3 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + + + + LANCASTER + LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES PA AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD du POTW FIPS Code Region State County 42071 3 PA LANCASTER Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database LANCASTER SEWER AUTH STANLEY D Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LANCASTER AREA SEWER AUTHORITY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EPHRATA BOROUGH WASTEWATER TRE Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS ELIZABETHTOWN BOROUGH STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LITITZ SEWAGE AUTHORITY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LANCASTER SEW. AUTH. NORTH STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS City of Lancaster Auth. Lancaster Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Columbia Water Company Columbia Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Millersville Borough Auth. Millersville Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List COLONIAL METALS CO Air AIRS/DUNS U S REDUCTION CO Air AIRS/OUNS C D CHARTER POWER SYSTEMS Air AIRS/OUNS Berkley Products Co. Dump Denver Superfund Site SNAP UGI Columbia Gas Plant Columbia Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age' Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.12 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.19 15 64 0.64 35 50,000 0.25 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.21 >75,000 0.07 Total Population . 425249 Total Families . 112666 Median Income 36460 Average Income 39959 Per Capita Income 12262 B 52 REGION 3 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER NEW CASTLE DE LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 10003 3 DE NEW CASTLE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database DELMARVA P L EDGEMOOR WILMINGTON Surface Water direct PCS WILMINGTON,CITY OF;WILMINGTON Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JOHNSON CONTROLS INC Air AIRS/OUNS Delaware Sand Gravel Landfill New Castie County Superfund Site SNAP Army Creek Landfill New Castie County Superfund Site SNAP E.I.Du Pont de Nemours Newport Landfill Newport Superfund Site SNAP Halby Chemical Co. New Castle Superfund Site SNAP Harvey Knott Drum, Inc. Kirkwood Superfund Site SNAP Tybouts Corner Landfill New Castle County Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.12 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.13 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.14 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.21 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.23 >75,000 0.16 Total Population 438027 Total Families 113794 Median Income . 43913 Average Income 48658 Per Capita Income 16519 B 54 REGION 3 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + WESTMORELAND PA LEGEND + O FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 42129 3 PA WESTMORELAND source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database NEW KENSINGTON CITY MUNICIPAL Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GREATER GREENSBURG SEWAGE AUTH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LATROBE MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY ST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS KISKI VALLEY WATER POLLUTION C Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEW STANTON AREA WATER POLLUTI Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WESTERN WESTMORELAND MUN.AUTH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEANNETTE CITY MUNICIPAL AUTHO Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WESTHORELAND FAYETTE MUN SEWAG Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Latrobe Municipal Authority Latrobe Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Ligonier TWP. Munic. Auth. Ligonier Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Derry Boro Minicipal Auth. Derry Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List High Ridge Water Supply High Ridge Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List LENOX INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.06 <15,000 0.14 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.17 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.23 15 64 0.64 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.17 50 75,000 0.18 75,000 0.05 Total Population 394709 Total Families 113152 Median Income 32194 Average Income 35475 Per Capita Income . 12238 B 56 REGION 3 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + o + LUZERNE LEGEND PA FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW O FIPS Code Region State County 42079 3 PA LUZERNE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database GREATER HAZLETON JOINT SEVER A Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LOWER LACKAHANNA VALLEY SAN. A Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DALLAS AREA MUNICIPAL AUTH. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PG W Gardner Mill Creek MILL Creek Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Plymouth Relief Plymouth Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Watres Reservair PG W Drinking Water ned. 819 EPA List Hazieton city Auth Water Hazleton Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Dallas Water Co. Dallas Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List PENN DUPONT BATTERY CO Air AIRS/DUNS OI NEG TV PRODUCTS INC Air AIRS/DUNS OWENS ILLINOIS INC Air AIRS/DUNS C D Recycling Foster Township Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.06 <15,000 0.17 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.22 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.22 15 64 0.63 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.20 50 75,000 0.13 >75,000 0.04 Total Population 324634 Total Families 87273 Median Income 30115 Average Income . 33457 Per Capita Income 11006 B 58 REGION 3 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER O + + BERKS + + PA + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP + BRSG + BRSR PCSD POTW + FIPS Code Region State County 42011 3 PA BERKS Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database READING,CITY OF FRITZ ISLAND W Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EXETER TOWNSHIP WWTR TRTMT PLT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SPECIAL ALLOYS NET PROCESS CO Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS EAST PENN MANUFACTURING CO Air AIRS/DUNS EC ACQUISITION INC Air AIRS/OUNS GENERAL BATTERY CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS EC MERGER INC Air AIRS/DUNS WILLARD BATTERY CO Air AIRS/DUNS YUASA EXIDE BATTERY CORP Air AIRS/DUNS EAS Air AIRS/DUNS EXI Air AIRS/OUNS Brown's Battery Breaking Shoemakersville Superfund Site SNAP Berks Landfill Spring Township Superfund Site SNAP Douglassville Disposal Douglassville Superfund Site SNAP Metropolitan Mirror and Glass Frackville Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.13 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.26 65+ 0.16 50 75,000 0.21 >75,000 0.07 Total Population 336819 Total Families 91349 Median Income 37410 Average Income . 40372 Per Capita Income 13224 B 60 REGION 4 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER DADE FL LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 12025 4 FL DADE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database MIAMI VIRGINIA KEY WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MIAMI DADE NO DIST WTF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CAROL CITY STP surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CUTLER RIDGE WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NO MIAMI BEACH UTIL CO Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SUNSET PARK STP GEN WATERWORKS Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS so GULF UTIL ANDOVER MIAMI Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS 3ay Harbor Islands, Town Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Surfside, Town of Surfside Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List INORGANIC RECYCLING INC Air AIRS/DUNS MIAMI RIVER RECYCLING INC Air AIRS/DUNS NEWELL ENTERPRISES INC Air AIRS/DUNS MIAMI BATTERY MFG CO Air AIRS/DUNS LEAD ENTERPRISES INC Air AIRS/DUNS Anaconda Aluminum Co./Milgo Electronics Niami Superfund site SNAP Anodyne, Inc. North Miami Beach Superfund site SNAP Gold Coast oil Corp. Miami Superfund Site SNAP Miami Drum Services Miami Superfund Site SNAP Northwest 58th Street Landfill Hialesh Superfund Site SNAP Munisport Landfill North Miami Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.22 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.17 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.19 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.16 >75,000 0.09 Total Population 1929418 Total Families 480058 Median Income . 32530 Average Income . 38131 Per Capita Income . 12427 B 62 REGION 4 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + 4 + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES HILLSBOROUGH AIRS + SNAP FL BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 12057 4 FL HILLSBOROUGH Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database TAMPA HOOKER'S POINT STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PLT CITY STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HILLSBORO CO . RIVER OAKS STP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS ST PETERSBURG NORTHEAST WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ST PETERSBURG ALBERT WHITTED Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UNITED STATES SMELTING REF Air AIRS/DUNS BAYOU METAL CO Air AIRS/DUNS GULF COAST RECYCLING INC Air AIRS/DUNS JOHNSON CONTROLS INC Air AIRS/DUNS MICRO PRECISION INC Air AIRS/DUNS PACIFIC DUNLOP GNB CORP Air AIRS/OUNS GUL Air AIRS/DUNS Kassauf Kimering Battery Disposal Tampa Superfund Site SNAP Peak 011 Co./Bay Drum Co. Tampa Superfund Site SNAP Schuylkill Metals Corp. Plant City Superfund Site SNAP Sixty Second Street Dump Tampa Superfund Site SNAP Stauffer Chemical Co. Tampa Plant Tampa Superfund Site SNAP Taylor Road Landfill Seffner Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.19 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.19 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.20 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.16 >75,000 0.08 Total Population 842315 Total Families 221718 Median Income . 31572 Average Income . 36601 Per Capita Income 12727 B 64 REGION 4 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER P BROWARD FL LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG 0 BRSR PCSD 00 POTW + FIPS Code Region State County 12011 4 FL BROWARD Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database BROWARD CO NO REG PLT WMTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOLLYWOOD WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FT LAUDERDALE NW 6TH ST/WTP A Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FT. LAUDERDALE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FORT LAUDERDALE PT EV'GL/WTP D Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NO MIAMI OCEAN OUTFALL Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PLANTATION NORTH WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OAKLAND PARK WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LAUDERHILL WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SCOES 1A Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Dania, City of Dania Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Miramer, City of Miramar Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List BCOES Broadview Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Indian Trace Indian Trace Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List ATLANTIC COAST REFINING INC Air AIRS/DUNS WILS LEAD PRODUCTS Air AIRS/DUNS Broward County 21st Manor Dump Fort Lauderdale Superfund Site SNAP Davie Landfill Davie Superfund Site SNAP Chemform, Inc. Pompano Beach Superfund Site SNAP Petroleum Products Corp. Pembroke Park Superfund Site SNAP Wilson Concepts of Florida, Inc. Pompano Beach Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.06 <15,000 0.14 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.05 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.62 35 50,000 0.20 65+ 0.21 50 75,000 0.18 >75,000 0.11 Total Population 1255110 Total Families . 334943 Median Income 37979 Average Income 44168 Per Capita Income . 16434 B 66 REGION 4 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW DUVAL FL + FIPS Code Region State County 12031 4 FL DUVAL Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database JAX BUCKMAN ST STP 1 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JAX ARLINGTON EAST STP 4 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JAX SOUTHWEST STP 3 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JAX DISTRICT 11 STP 2 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JAX BEACH STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JAX CEDAR HILL STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JAX TURTLE CREEK Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS REYNOLDS METALS COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS SOUTHEASTERN SMELTING REF Air AIRS/DUNS N D POWER SOURCES INC Air AIRS/DUNS Florida Steel Corp. Indiantown Superfund Site SNAP Pickettville Road Landfill Jacksonville Superfund Site SNAP Whitehouse oil Pits Whitehouse Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.22 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.21 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.16 >75,000 0.06 Total Population 668041 Total Families . 175373 Median Income 30273 Average Income 34362 Per Capita Income . 11948 B 68 REGION 4 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + VOLUSIA FL LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 12127 4 FL VOLUSIA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database DAYTONA BCH REG/BETH PT WWTP'S Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ORMOND BEACH STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Daytona Beach Daytons Beach Drinking Water large 819 EPA List City of south Daytone South Daytons Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Ormond Beach, city of Ormond Beach Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Port Orange, City of Port Orange Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List New Smyrna Beach, City of New Smyrna Beach Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List VDO PAK INC Air AIRS/DUNS Plymouth Avenue Landfill DeLand Superfund site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.06 <15,000 0.24 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.24 10 14 0.05 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.61 35 50,000 0.18 65+ 0.23 50 75,000 0.10 >75,000 0.04 Total Population 373485 Total Families . 103708 Median Income . 25460 Average Income 30433 Per Capita Income . 11365 B 70 REGION 4 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER JEFFERSON O AL + + + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + O SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW O FIPS Code Region State County 01073 4 AL JEFFERSON Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database JEFFERSON CO VILLAGE CREEK WWT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON CO VALLEY CREEK WWTP Surface Water POTU IFD/PCS JEFFERSON CO FIVE MILE CR WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON CO CAHABA RIVER WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON CO TURKEY CREEK WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON CO SHADESVALLEY WWTP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS JEFFERSON CO PATTON CREEK WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS INTERSTATE LEAD COMPANY INC Air AIRS/DUNS BERMAN BROTHERS IRON MET CO Air AIRS/DUNS w J BULLOCK INC Air AIRS/DUNS NATIONAL METALS INC Air AIRS/DUNS Interstate Lead Co. ILCO Leeds Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.21 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.17 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.16 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.21 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.17 >75,000 0.08 Total Population . 640799 Total Families 173380 Median Income 31798 Average Income 36258 Per Capita Income 11017 B 72 REGION 4 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + + SNAP BRSG 4 BRSR PCSD + POTW + FULTON + GA FIPS Code Region State County 13121 4 GA FULTON Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database ATLANTA R N CLAYTON WPCP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FULTON CO CAN CREEK WPCP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ATLANTA INTRENCHMENT CRK WPCP Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS ATLANTA SOUTH RIVER WPCP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ATLANTA UTOY CREEK WPCP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ATLANTA FLINT RIVER WPCP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOLLYWOOD ROAD WPC PLT Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS North Fulton County Drinking Water large 819 EPA List East Point East Point Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Roswell Roswell Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List BARTON/THOMAS INC Air AIRS/DUNS R L NAGLE MANUFACTURING CO Air AIRS/DUNS REYNOLDS METALS COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS PRO BATTERY INC Air AIRS/DUNS GNB Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.24 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.14 15 64 0.70 35 50,000 0.17 65+ 0.10 50 75,000 0.16 >75,000 0.14 Total Population 674563 Total Families 163091 Median Income . 33220 Average Income . 39460 Per Capita Income 14068 B 74 REGION 4 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER GREENVILLE SC + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 45045 4 SC GREENVILLE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database WCRSA/PELMAN PLANT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WCRSA/LOWER REEDY RIVER PLANT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WCRSA/TAYLORS AREA PLT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WCRSA/MAULDIN ROAD PLT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GN8 INCORPORATED Air AIRS/OUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS Elmore Waste Disposal Greer Superfund Site SNAP Beaunit Corp. Circular Knit Dye Fountain Inn Superfund Site SNAP Golden Strip Septic Tank Service Simpsonvi lle Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.16 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.17 >75,000 0.09 Total Population . 297259 Total Families 81173 Median income 33695 Average Income . 38486 Per Capita Income 12589 B 76 REGION 4 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER JEFFERSON KY + + + + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 21111 4 KY JEFFERSON Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database LOUISVILLE G E CANE RUN STA LOUISVILLE surface Water direct PCS LOUISVILLE G E MILL CRK STA LOUISVILLE Surface Water direct PCS MORRIS FORMAN STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSONTOWN STP MSD Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HITE CREEK STP MSD Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OKOLONA SEWER CONST DIST STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS AMERICAN REFINING CO Air AIRS/DUNS INTERLOCK INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS QUALITY RECOVERY SYSTEMS INC Air AIRS/OUNS JOHNSON CONTROLS INC Air AIRS/DUNS MISCHITO LTD Air AIRS/DUNS HART BATTERY EXCHANGE Air AIRS/OUNS Distier Farm Jefferson County Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.15 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.16 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.20 >75,000 0.11 Total Population 678135 Total Families . 183372 Median Income 37163 Average Income 41858 Per Capita Income 14083 B 78 REGION 4 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG . BRSR PCSD SHELBY POTW . TN + FIPS Code Region State County 47157 4 TN SHELBY Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database MEMPHIS MAYMARO C. STILES Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MEMPHIS TE MAXSON STP so PLT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS REFINED METALS CORP Air AIRS/DUNS GNB INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS GNB INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS ENPAK INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS REF Air AIRS/DUNS Memphis Defense Depot Memphis Superfund site SNAP South 8th Street Landfill W Memphis LF West Memphis Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.23 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.17 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.16 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.21 65+ 0.10 50 75,000 0.17 >75,000 0.08 Total Population . 826232 Total Families 211872 Median Income 31906 Average Income 36255 Per Capita Income . 11913 B 80 REGION 5 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + + + DAKOTA MN LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES + AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 27037 5 MN DAKOTA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database GOPHER SMELTING REFINING CO EAGAN Solid Waste gen. BRS MWCC/MC SENECA Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS MWCC/NC HASTINGS Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS METRO SWR 80 TWIN CITIES AREA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LANDFILL RECOVERY SYSTEMS Air AIRS/DUNS FFS INCORPORATED Air AIRS/OUNS SPECTRO ALLOYS INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS GOPHER SMELTING REFINING CO Air AIRS/DUNS LO NIDY COMPANY INC Air AIRS/DUNS R D BATTERIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS NATIONAL CUSTOM ENTERPRISES Air AIRS/DUNS GNB INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS PACIFIC DUNLOP GNB CORP Air AIRS/OUNS GOP Air AIRS/DUNS Freeway Sanitary Landfill Burnsville Superfund Site SNAP Koch Refining Co./W Ren Corp. Pine Bend Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.09 <15,000 0.07 5 9 0.09 15 25,000 0.10 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.13 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.27 65+ 0.06 50 75,000 0.30 >75,000 0.13 Total Population 272383 Total Families 72796 Median Income 46058 Average Income 49027 Per Capita Income . 15901 B 82 REGION 5 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER MILWAUKEE + WI + ++ + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 55079 5 WI MILWAUKEE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database MILWAUKEE MSD . JONES ISLAND Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS MILWAUKEE MSD SOUTH SHORE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOUTH MILWAUKEE CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Milwaukee Waterworks Milwaukee Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Milwaukee County Grounds Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List North Shore Water Commission North Shore Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Wauwatosa Waterworks Wauwatosa Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Shorewood Waterworks Shorewood Drinking Water ned. 819 EPA List Oak Creek Waterworks Oak Creek Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List South Milwaukee Waterworks South Milwaukee Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Cudahy Waterworks Cudahy Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List BALCO METALS INC Air AIRS/DUNS JOHNSON CONTROLS INC Air AIRS/DUNS JOHNSON CONTROLS INC Air AIRS/DUNS JOHNSON CONTROLS INC Air AIRS/DUNS Fadrowski Drum Disposal Franklin Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.14 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.14 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.20 15 64 0.64 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.21 >75,000 0.06 Total Population 959235 Total Families 239230 Median Income 35810 Average Income 39305 Per Capita Income 13332 B 84 REGION 5 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + LAKE + IL + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG + BRSR to PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 17097 5 IL LAKE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database NSSO WAUKEGAN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NSSO CLAVEY ROAD Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NSSD GURNEE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LIBERTYVILLE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MUNDELEIN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DEERFIELD 002 EF DFLD RD Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BARRINGTON Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ROUND LAKE SAN DIS Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS Waukegan Waukegan Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Deerfield Deerfield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Grays Lake Grays Lake Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Highland Park Highland Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Lake Forest Lake Forest Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Wauconda Wauconda Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Round Lake Beach Round Lake Beach Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Lake Bluff Lake Bluff Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Lincolnshire Lincolnshire Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Lake Zurich Lake Zurich Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Libertyville Libertyville Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List ENVIRO CHEM INC Air AIRS/DUNS R LAVIN SON INC Air AIRS/DUNS H.O.D. Landfill Antioch Superfund Site SNAP Yeoman Creek Landfill Waukegan Superfund Site . SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.08 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.08 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.11 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.20 65+ 0.08 50 75,000 0.28 >75,000 0.25 Total Population 547738 Total Families 143232 Median Income 51997 Average Income 56528 Per Capita Income 17681 B 86 REGION 5 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + + + + + DU PAGE + + 1 4 + + + + + + + + + + of + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 17043 5 IL DUPAGE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database ELMHURST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DOWNERS GROVE S.D. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GLENBARD WASTEWATER AUTHORITY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NAPERVILLE SPRINGBROOK Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BENSENVILLE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SALT CREEK DRAINAGE BASIN S.D. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DUPAGE CNTY DEPT PUB WKS LISLE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DUPAGE COUNTY WOCDRIDGE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ADDISON SOUTH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DUPAGE COUNTY MARION BROOK DPW Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WEST CHICAGO Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GLENDALE HEIGHTS Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ADDISON NORTH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ITASCA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ROSELLE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LONBARD, VILLAGE OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HINSDALE OAK BROOK Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Glen Ellyn Glen Ellyn Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Clarendon Hills Clarendon Hills Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Winfield Winfield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List TRICON INDUSTRIES INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS X CALABER ENTERPRISES DEL Air AIRS/DUNS REYNOLDS ALUMINUM RECYCLING Air AIRS/OUNS 8 A JACOBSON CO INC Air AIRS/OUNS TELECOMMUNICATION DEVICES INC Air AIRS/DUNS GNB INDUSTRIAL BATTERY CO Air AIRS/DUNS BATTERY BUILDERS INC Air AIRS/DUNS Kerr McGee Sewage Treatment Plant West Chicago Superfund Site SNAP Kerr McGee Reed Keppler Park West Chicago Superfund Site SNAP Kerr McGee Kress Creek DuPage County Superfund Site SNAP Kerr MCGee Residential Areas W Chic/DuPage Cnty Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.04 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.06 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.10 15 64 0.69 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.09 50 75,000 0.35 >75,000 0.21 Total Population 821508 Total Families 219264 Median Income 53619 Average income 57337 per Capita Income 2418 B 88 REGION 5 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + KANE IL + + + @ LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES + + + f AIRS + + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 17089 5 IL KANE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database AURORA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FOX RIVER WRD . SOUTH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CARPENTERSVILLE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ST. CHARLES Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FOX RIVER WRD NORTH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GENEVA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BATAVIA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Elgin Elgin Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Aurora Aurora Drinking Water large 819 EPA List West Dundee West Bundee Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Satavis Batavia Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List South Elgin South Elgin Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List METALLIC RESOURCES INC Air AIRS/DUNS JOHNSON CONTROLS INC Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.09 <15,000 0.08 5 9 0.09 15 25,000 0.11 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.15 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.28 65+ 0.09 50 75,000 0.27 >75,000 0.11 Total Population 329895 Total Families 84716 Median Income . 46208 Average Income 49696 Per Capita Income . 15017 B 90 REGION 5 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + + 04 + + it pt + tt + LEGEND COOK ++ FRDS COUNTIES IL AIRS + SNAP + OO BRSG + BRSR PCSD POTW + FIPS Code Region State County 17031 5 IL COOK Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database MMRDGC STICKNEY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MWRDGC NORTH SIDE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MWRDGC CALUMET Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MMRDGC KIRIE Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS MMRDGC EGAN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HINSDALE S.D. Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS THORN CREEK BASIN S.D. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MMRDGC HANOVER PK. Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HOMEWOOD, VILLAGE OF Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS BARTLETT Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS Oak Park Oak Park Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Oak Lawn Oak Lawn Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Glanview Glanview Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Palatine Palatina Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Chicago Chicago Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Lansing Lansing Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Summit Summit Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Berwyn Berwyn Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Hazel Crest Hazel Crest Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Riverdale Riverdale Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Elmwood Park Elmwood Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Lyons Lyons Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Bellwood Beilwood Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Calumet City Calumet City Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Northfield Northfield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List South Holland South Holland Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List South Stickny Sndst South Stickny Sndst Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Midlothian Midlothian Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Berkeley Berkeley Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Broadview Broadview Drinking Water med. 319 EPA List Brookfield Brookfield Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Evergreen Park Evergreen Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Worth Worth Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Bartlett Bartlett Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Blue Island Blue Island Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List La Grange Park La Grange Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Leyden Twep Wtr District Levden Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List River Forest River Forest Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List River Grove River Grove Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Burnham Burnnam Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Harwood Heights Harwood Heights Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Lincolnwood Lincolnwood Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Maywood Maywood Drinking Water med. 319 EPA LIST Park Ridge Park ?idae ^rinking Water 'nec. 319 IPA Not .tickney Stickney Drinking water .med. 319 EPA List Westchester Westchester Drinking Water mea. d19 EPA List Dixmoor Dixmoor Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Homewood Homewood Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Riverside Riverside Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Wilmette Wilmette Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Franklin Park Franklin Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Schiller Park Schiller Park Crinking Water mea. 319 EPA List Morton Grove Morton Grove Drinking Water mea. 319 EPA List Horthbrook Northbrook Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List North Riverside North Riverside Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List ALLIED METAL CO Air AIRS/DUNS ALLIED METAL CO Air AIRS/DUNS ARROW INTERNATIONAL LTD Air AIRS/DUNS SABBITTING SERVICE INC Air AIRS/DUNS CHICAGO SMELTING in REFINING Air HIRS/DUNS CIRCLE CHELTING INC AIR AIRS/DUNS H KRAMER CO Air AIRS/DUNS IMPERIAL SMELTING CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS M SELIGMAN CO Air AIRS/DUNS MAR COR INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/OUNS PROLERIZED CHICAGO CORP Air AIRS/DUNS R LAVIN SON INC Air AIRS/DUNS B 92 SEFERANS RFINERY JEWELERS INC Air AIRS/DUNS SIPI METALS CORP Air AIRS/OUNS UNITED AMERICAN METALS Air AIRS/DUNS AMES METAL PRODUCTS CO. Air AIRS/OUNS ALUMAR ASSOCIATES INC Air AIRS/DUNS COLUNSIA ALUMINUM RECYCLING Air AIRS/DUNS TRIALCO INC Air AIRS/DUNS MID STATES RECYCLING INC Air AIRS/DUNS BALL INCON GLASS PACKAGING Air AIRS/DUNS BOLIDEN METECH INC Air AIRS/DUNS CHICAGOLANO PROCESSING CORP Air AIRS/DUNS TELEDYNE INC Air AIRS/DUNS KEYSTONE RESOURCES Air AIRS/DUNS UNITED REFINING SMELTING CO Air AIRS/DUNS NATIONAL REFINING SYSTEMS INC Air AIRS/DUNS REYNOLDS METALS COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS ECOLOGY PHOTOLOGY Air AIRS/OUNS PHELPS HYDRO ELECTRIC STRY MFG Air AIRS/OUNS PACIFIC DUNLOP HOLDINGS INC Air AIRS/DUNS GENERAL ELECTRIC BATTERY DEPT Air AIRS/OUNS GNB INDUSTRIAL STRY COMPANY Air AIRS/OUNS POWER PAK INC Air AIRS/OUNS NAV CO INC Air AIRS/OUNS WLTEATON FINE GLASS Air AIRS/OUNS INDIANA GLASS Air AIRS/DUNS REGENCY LEADED LIGHTS LTD Air AIRS/DUNS Lenz 011 Service, Inc. Lemont Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.16 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.13 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.21 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.23 >75,000 0.10 Total Population 5039402 Total Families . 1230391 Median Income . 40916 Average Income 45046 Per Capita Income . 15089 B 93 REGION 5 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + . + + t + + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES LAKE AIRS SNAP IN BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 18089 5 IN LAKE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database INLAND STEEL COMPANY EAST CHICAGO Surface Water direct PCS LTV STEEL COMPANY EAST CHICAGO Surface Water direct PCS USX CORP., USS GARY WORKS PITTSBURGH Surface Water direct PCS GARY SANITARY DISTRICT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HAMMOND SANITARY DISTRICT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EAST CHICAGO Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CROWN POINT MUNICIPAL STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOBART WSTWTR TRMT PLT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Hammond Water Work Dept. Hammond Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Munster Water Company Munster Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List East Chicago Water Works East Chicago Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List New Chicago Water Works New Chicago Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Whiting Water Plant Whiting Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List MARPORT SMELTING INC Air AIRS/DUNS NOBLE METALS REFINERS INC Air AIRS/DUNS PORTAGE ALUMINUM INC Air AIRS/OUNS U S REDUCTION CO Air AIRS/DUNS AMG RESOURCES CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS MASON CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS HAMMOND LEAD PRODUCTS INC Air AIRS/DUNS HAMMOND LEAD PRODUCTS INC Air AIRS/DUNS HAMMOND LEAD PRODUCTS INC Air AIRS/DUNS MIDCO 11 Gary Superfund Site SNAP MIDCO I Gary Superfund Site SNAP U.S. Smelter Lead Refinery Inc. East Chicago Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.17 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.17 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.20 15 64 0.64 35 50,000 0.27 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.16 >75,000 0.04 Total Population . 478866 Total Families . 126571 Median Income . 32493 Average Income 35133 Per Capita Income 11321 B 95 REGION 5 COUNTY CON T'AINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + OAKLAND MI a + + LEGEND + + + + FRDS COUNTIES + AIRS SNAP + BRSG + BRSR PCSD + + + POTW + + + FIPS Code Region State County 26125 5 MI OAKLAND Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database PONTIAC CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ROCHESTER CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Royel Oak Royal Oak Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Oak Park Oak Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Hazel Park Hazel Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Huntington Woods Huntington Woods Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Sloomfield Hills Sloomfield Hills Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List J L SERVICE COMPANY INC Air AIRS/OUNS R JOHNSON MANAGEMENT SVCS LTD Air AIRS/OUNS 47TH STREET JEWELRY EXCHANGE Air AIRS/OUNS CITY METALS REFINING CO. INC Air AIRS/OUNS I F L GROUP INC Air AIRS/DUNS R JOHNSON MANAGEMENT SVCS LTD Air AIRS/DUNS OVONIC BATTERY COMPANY INC Air AIRS/DUNS Cametary Dump Rose Center Superfund Site SNAP J L Landfill Rochester Hills Superfund Site SNAP Rose Township Dump Rose Township Superfund Site SNAP Springfield Township Dump Davisburg Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.07 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.09 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.11 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.19 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.28 >75,000 0.25 Total Population 1079277 Total Families 290529 Median Income . 53160 Average Income 58180 Per Capita Income 19119 B 97 REGION 5 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA'LEAD CLUSTER + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + WAYNE + MI LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 26163 5 MI WAYNE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database NCLOUTH STEEL TRENTON TRENTON surface Water direct PCS ROUGE STEEL CO DEARBORN surface Water direct PCS WAYNE CO WYANDOTTE WWTP surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DETROIT WWTP surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TRENTON WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GROSSE ILE SWG TRMT PLT surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WAYNE COUNTY TRENTON surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WAYNE COUNTY FLATROCK surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Taylor Taylor Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Dearborn Heights Dearborn Heights Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Westland Westland Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Dearborn Dearborn Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Grosse Pointe Park Grosse Pointe Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Grosse Pointe Woods Grosse Pointe Woods Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Riverview Riverview Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Romulus Romulus Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Melvindale Melvindale Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Garden City Garden City Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Gibraltar Gibraltar Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Harper Woods Harper Woods Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Grosse Ile Twp Grosse Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Inkster Inkster Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List River Rouge River Rouge Drinking Water med. 319 EPA List Wayne Wayne Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Alien Park Allen Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Grosse Pointe Farms Grosse Pointe Farms Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Highland Park Highland Park Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Hamtrack Hamtrack Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Ecorse Ecorse Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Sumpter Twp Sumpter Drinking Water med. 319 EPA List Wyandotte Wyandotte Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Brownstown Twp Brownstown Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Huron Twp Huron Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List ARCO ALLOYS CORP Air AIRS/DUNS 8 T INDUSTRIAL RECYCLING CO Air AIRS/DUNS FALCON FOUNDRY INC Air AIRS/DUNS INDUSTRIAL RECYCLING SERVICES Air AIRS/OUNS NONFERROUS METAL ALLOYS CORP Air AIRS/DUNS AGHOG DETROIT CO Air AIRS/DUNS MATTHEY JOHNSON INC Air AIRS/DUNS ALUMINUM COMPANY OF AMERICA Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/OUNS Posutation Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.18 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.15 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.18 >75,000 0.08 Total Population 2120193 Total Families . 539782 Median Income 36345 Average Income 38155 Per Capita Income 12574 3 99 REGION 5 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LEGEND + ++ FRDS COUNTIES . + AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR + + PCSD + + POTW + + + + + + + + + + t a + + + + CUYAHOGA + OH + FIPS Code Region State County 39035 5 OH CUYAHOGA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database NEORSD SOUTHERLY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEORSD . SEREA surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEORSD STRONGSVILLE A Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEORSD EASTERLY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS STRONGSVILLE, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS STRONGSVILLE, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEORSD WESTERLY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MIDDLEBURG NTS, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Cloveland Saldwin Plant Cleveland Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Cleveland Nottingham Cleveland Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Cleveland Crown Plant Cleveland Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Cleveland Morgan Cleveland Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Bedford Water Dept. Sedford Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List FEDERAL METAL CO. Air AIRS/DUNS ABLE ALLOY SCRAP CO Air AIRS/DUNS ALUMINUM SMELTING AND REF CO Air AIRS/DUNS AMERICA COOKSON INC Air AIRS/OUNS AMERICAN RECOVERY TECH SYSTEMS Air AIRS/DUNS BUCKEYE REFINING INC Air AIRS/DUNS COLONIAL METALS CO Air AIRS/DUNS CONNELL LIMITED PARTNERSHIP Air AIRS/DUNS CONTINENTAL METAL PROC CO Air AIRS/OUNS CONTINENTAL METAL PROC CO Air AIRS/DUNS I SCHUMANN COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS MASTER METALS INC Air AIRS/DUNS OAKWOOD INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS REFINED ALUMINUM EXTRACT Air AIRS/OUNS SPECIALTY ALLOY CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS STALLOY METALS INC Air AIRS/DUNS VICTORY WHITE METAL COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS RIVER SMELTING AND REFINING CO Air AIRS/DUNS GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS REPUBLIC LEAD BURNING EOP CO Air AIRS/DUNS MAS Air AIRS/OUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.16 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.14 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.64 35 50,000 0.22 55+ 0.16 50 75,000 0.21 >15,000 0.09 Total Population 1401984 Total Families 367075 Median Income 37308 Average Income . 41381 Per Capita Income 14661 B 101 REGION o COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + EAST BATON ROUGE LA is is + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 22033 6 LA EAST BATON ROUGE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database EXXON CO USA BATON ROUGE BATON ROUGE Surface Water direct PCS FORMOSA PLASTICS CORP BATON RO BATON ROUGE Surface Water direct PCS E BATON ROUGE CITY PAR CENTRA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS E BATON ROUGE CITY PAR SOUTH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS E BATON ROUGE CITY PAR NORTH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SCHUYLKILL HOLDINGS INC Air AIRS/DUNS SCHUYLKILL METALS CORP Air AIRS/DUNS DANIELL BATTERY MFG CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS SCH Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.18 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.14 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.21 65+ 0.09 50 75,000 0.21 >75,000 0.08 Total Population 380080 Total Families . 95832 Median Income . 35965 Average Income 39985 Per Capita Income 12976 B 103 REGION 6 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER HARRIS TX 0 + + + + + + 9 to + + LEGEND at + FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR + PCSD + POTW FIPS Code Region State County 48201 6 TX HARRIS Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database SHELL OIL CO HOUSTON DEER PARK Surface Water direct PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF SIMS BAYOU Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF SOUTHWEST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF WEST Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS GCWDA Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF NORTHWEST Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS GCWDA TRAIL OF LAKES MUD Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS BAYTOWN, CITY OF W MAIN ST PL Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF BELTWAY CENT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF TURKEY CREEK Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DEER PARK, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF NORTHEAST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF SOUTHEAST Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF WCID 0047 Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS SOUTH HOUSTON, CITY OF Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF CHOCOLATE BA Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS PASADENA, CITY OF VINCE BAYOU Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS GCWDA KLEINWOOD Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HARRIS COUNTY WCID 0096 Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF GREENRIDGE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HARRIS COUNTY WCID 0104 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF FWSO 0023 Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF WCID 0051 Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS PASADENA, CITY OF DEEPWATER Surface water POTW IFO/PCS GCWDA NORTH BELT REGIONAL SEWA Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HARRIS CO MUD NO. 86 Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF ALMEDA PLAZA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF CLINTON PARK Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TRESCHWIG JOINT POWERS BOARD Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS CLEAR LAKE CITY, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LAKE FOREST PLANT ADVISORY cou Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BELLAIRE, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF SAGEMONT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GCWDA TIMBER LANE UD Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF IMP.VALLEY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HARRIS COUNTY FWSD 0051 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HARRIS COUNTY WCID 0090 Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HUMBLE, CITY OF SOUTH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MEMORIAL VILLAGES WA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS RAYFORD ROAD MUD HOUSTON MONTG Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WEBSTER, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF NORTHSIDE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PASADENA, CITY OF VINCE BAYOU Surface Water POTU IFD/PCS JERSEY VILLAGE, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HOUSTON. CITY OF FWSD 0017 Surface Water POTW :FD/PCS SOUTH HOUSTON CITY OF Surface Water POTW !FD/PCS HOUSTON, CITY OF RED GULLY Surrace Water POTW IFD/PCS C N P Utility District Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List CATHODIC PROTECTION SERVICE CO Air AIRS/DUNS DSS INTERNATIONAL INC Air AIRS/DUNS HERLEAG SYSTEMS Air AIRS/DUNS AARO METALS COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS ABEL MORALES JR Air AIRS/DUNS GULF REDUCTION CORPORATION Air AIRS/OUNS GULFMET HOLDINGS CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS M R I CORP Air AIRS/DUNS PARKANS INTERNATIONAL INC Air AIRS/DUNS REYNOLDS METALS COMPANY Air AIRS/OUNS U S ZINC CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS MONARCH PRECISION Air AIRS/DUNS HOUSTON BATTERY SALES COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS DEFENSE ELECTRONICS 099 Air AIRS/OUNS FANTASIA IMPORTS Air AIRS/DUNS GULF COAST MFG SUP CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS TEXAS LEAD SUPPLY CO.INC Air AIRS/DUNS GALVESTON LEAD PRODUCTS Air AIRS/DUNS ROBERTS LEADED GLASS Air AIRS/DUNS NEW ENGLAND LEAD BURNING CO Air AIRS/DUNS B 105 Highlands Acid Pit Highlands Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.09 <15,000 0.16 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.19 15 64 0.69 35 50,000 0.23 65 0.07 50 75,000 0.18 >75,000 0.08 Total Population . 2835514 Total Families 706607 Median Income . 35061 Average Income 38829 Per Capita Income 13029 B 106 REGION 6 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER JEFFERSON TX LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 48245 6 TX JEFFERSON Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database LOWER NECHES VALLEY AUTH BEAUM BEAUMONT Surface Water direct PCS PO GLYCOL AND PPG INDUSTRIES BEAUMONT Surface Water direct PCS BEAUMONT, CITY OF HILLEBRANDT Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS PORT ARTHUR, CITY OF MAIN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MEDERLAND, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PORT NECHES, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NEDERLAND, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Port Arthur Port Arthur Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Port Neches City of Port Neches Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.19 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.20 15 64 0.63 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.15 >75,000 0.05 Total Population 239311 Total Families 64054 Median Income 31409 Average Income 34772 Per Capita Income 11782 B 108 REGION 6 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + GALVESTON TX LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 48167 6 TX GALVESTON Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database CHEVRON USA INC PORT ARTHUR PORT ARTHUR Surface Water direct PCS GALVESTON, CITY OF MAIN Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS TEXAS CITY, CITY OF STP 0001 Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS LA MARQUE, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FRIENDSWOOD, CITY OF COWARD C Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GALVESTON COUNTY WCID 0001 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TEXAS COPPER CORP Air AIRS/DUNS CANNING METALS COMPANY INC Air AIRS/OUNS ASSOCIATED METALS Air AIRS/DUNS TEX TIN CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.16 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.25 65 0.11 50 75,000 0.18 >75,000 0.06 Total Population 212945 Total Families 56451 Median Income 33760 Average Income 36948 Per Capita Income . 12986 B 110 REGION 6 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + o BRAZORIA TX LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 48039 6 TX BRAZORIA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database DOW CHEMICAL U.S.A. FREEPORT solid Waste rec. BRS FREEPORT, CITY OF SLAUGHTER R Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ALVIN, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FREEPORT, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CLUTE, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Freeport City of Freeport Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List OLD EAGLE BATTERY Air AIRS/DUNS SOUTHERN METAL REFINING Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.09 5 9 0.09 15 25,000 0.13 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.30 65+ 0.08 50 75,000 0.23 >75,000 0.07 Total Population 196733 Total Families 51326 Median Income . 39303 Average Income . 41396 Per Capita Income 13065 B 112 REGION 6 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER BEXAR TX + + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 48029 6 TX BEXAR Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database SAN ANTONIO, CITY OF DOS RIOS Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CIBOLO CREEK MUN AUTH RIEDEL Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SARA SALATRILLO CREEK Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS SAN ANTONIO, CITY OF MITCHELL Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Ft. Sam Houston Ft. Sam Houston Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List NEWELL ENTERPRISES INC Air AIRS/DUNS STANDARD INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS GNB INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.24 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.19 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.21 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.18 65+ 0.10 50 75,000 0.14 >75,000 0.04 Total Population . 1181532 Total Families 295841 Median Income 27907 Average Income . 31641 Per Capita Income . 10200 B 114 REGION 6 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + of + + + + + + + + + DALLAS TX H + + + + LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR + PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 48113 6 TX DALLAS Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database DALLAS, CITY OF CENTRAL Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TRA CENTRAL Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GARLAND, CITY OF DUCK CREEK Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GARLAND, CITY OF ROWLETT CREE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS N TEXAS MUD FLOYD BRANCH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DALLAS, CITY OF SOUTHSIDE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS N TEXAS MUD MESQUITE CITY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DALLAS, CITY OF BACHMAN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ATLAS IRON SCRAP METAL CO Air AIRS/DUNS ALIM INC Air AIRS/DUNS CAN CITY DALLAS Air AIRS/DUNS CITY INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS DIXIE METALS COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS DNS REFINING I NC Air AIRS/DUNS HANCOCK INDUSTRIES Air AIRS/DUNS HARRY WOODS CO Air AIRS/DUNS ZIA TECHNOLOGY INC Air AIRS/DUNS QUENELL ENTERPRISES INC Air AIRS/DUNS IMCO RECYCLING INC Air AIRS/DUNS QUEMETCO METALS LTD INC Air AIRS/DUNS REYNOLDS ALUMINUM RECYCLING Air AIRS/DUNS SASSIN SONS CO Air AIRS/DUNS EVEREADY BATTERY COMPANY INC Air AIRS/OUNS GNB INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS GNB BATTERIES AUTO MFG/SALES Air AIRS/DUNS TEXAS BATTERY SUPPLY Air AIRS/OUNS COMPUTER SYSTEMS DIVISION 180 Air AIRS/DUNS JOHNSON CONTROLS INC Air AIRS/DUNS FERNMAIDE Air AIRS/DUNS LEAD ENTERPRISES INC Air AIRS/DUNS LEAD PRODUCTS CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS LEADED DESIGN Air AIRS/DUNS ARTCO LEADED GLASS Air AIRS/DUNS Bio Ecology Systems, Inc. Grand Prairie Superfund Site SNAP RSR Corp. Dallas Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.15 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.20 15 64 0.69 35 50,000 0.20 65 0.08 50 75,000 0.20 15,300 0.09 Total Population 1870459 Total Families . 467608 Median Income 34317 Average Income 39130 Per Capita Income 13456 B 116 REGION 6 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + + + + + + ++ + TARRANT + TX LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 48439 6 TX TARRANT Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database FORT WORTH, CITY OF VILLAGE C surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FORT WORTH, CITY OF TARRANT Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS OF TEXAS Air AIRS/DUNS EAGLE DIE CASTING INC Air AIRS/DUNS SELECT MILL PROCESSING Air AIRS/DUNS CARLISLE CHEMICAL SALES SVCS Air AIRS/DUNS A A LEADED GLASS Air AIRS/DUNS K H GENERAL LEAD PRODUCTS Air AIRS/DUNS Pesses Chemical Co. Fort Worth Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.09 <15,000 0.14 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.17 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.21 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.08 50 75,000 0.20 >75,000 0.07 Total Population . 1146542 Total Families 299982 Median Income . 34946 Average Income 38968 per Capita Income 13421 B 118 REGION o COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + OKLAHOMA OK LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 40109 6 OK OKLAHOMA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database MIDWEST CITY, CITY OF NORTHSI Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BETHANY WARR ACRES PMA Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS DEL CITY, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OK CITY, CITY OF DEER CREEK Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EDMOND, CITY OF PWA COFFEE CR Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OK CITY, CITY OF SOUTH SIDE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OKLAHOMA, CITY OF NORTH SIDE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS VILLAGE THE, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ACCU TECH INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS SASSER TECHNICAL MFG CO Air AIRS/DUNS Double Eagle Refinery Co. Oklahoma City Superfund Site SNAP Fourth Street Abandoned Retinery Oklahoma City Superfund Site SNAP Tenth Street Dump/Junkyard Oklahoma City Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.18 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.20 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.20 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.21 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.16 >75,000 0.06 Total Population 590401 Total Families 155906 Median Income . 30418 Average Income . 34493 Per Capita Income 11986 B 120 REGION 6 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER O O 6 JEFFERSO LEGEND LA FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 22051 6 LA JEFFERSON Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database KENNER, CITY OF PLANT 2 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH MARRERO STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GRETNA, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WESTWEGO, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH NARVEY STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH, HELOIS surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH, WEST NAPOLE Surface Water POTW IFO/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH, CAMP PLAUCH surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH, CAMP PLAUCH Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH, WEST NAPOLE surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH, WEST NAPOLE Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH BAYOU DES FAM Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH MEADOWBROOK Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JEFFERSON PARISH, AVONDALE so Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LOUISIANA LEAD PRODUCTS Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.15 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.26 65+ 0.10 50 75,000 0.17 >75,000 0.06 Total Population . 448289 Total Families . 118284 Median Income 32505 Average Income 36420 Per Capita Income 12368 B 122 REGION / COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER ST. LOUIS CITY MO O + + + LEGEND S FRDS COUNTIES + AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 29510 7 NO ST. LOUIS CITY Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database MSD, BISSELL POINT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MSD, LEMAY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MSD, BAUMGARTNER Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MANITOBA CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS METRO METAL RECYCLERS INC Air AIRS/DUNS MID STATES SMELTING INC Air AIRS/DUNS REYNOLDS ALUM RCYCLING CMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS ACNE BATTERY MANUFACTURING CO Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.26 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.20 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.62 35 50,000 0.18 65+ 0.17 50 75,000 0.13 >75,000 0.06 Total Population 386624 Total Families 88505 Median Income 27441 Average Income 33126 Per Capita Income 11472 B 124 REGION 7 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER ST. LOUIS + + + MO + + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES + + AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 29189 7 MO ST. LOUIS Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database MSD, COLDWATER CREEK Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MSD, NO. R. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MSD FISHPOT CREEK surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS HAUSER MILLER CO Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS CRYSTAL SOIL CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS NEW ENGLAND LEAD BURNING CO Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.08 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.11 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.14 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.27 >75,000 0.16 Total Population . 1020979 Total Families 277781 Median Income . 46455 Average Income 50317 Per Capita Income 17002 B 126 REGION 7 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER f JACKSON MO LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS C SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 29095 7 MO JACKSON Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database MIDDLE BIG CREEK Surface Water POTW IFO/PCS BLUE SPRINGS, SMI A BAR Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GRANDVIEW CITY OF WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS INDEPENDENCE CITY OF STP SPRIN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Lake City Army Ammus. Plant NW Lagoon Independence Superfund site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.16 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.15 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.19 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.20 >75,000 0.06 Total Population 635174 Total Families 164883 Median Income 34400 Average Income 37937 Per Capita Income 12603 Press any key to continue B 128 REGION 7 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER PLATTE MO LEGEND 11 FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP K BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 29165 7 NO PLATTE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database KC, BLUE RIVER Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS KC, WESTSIDE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS KANSAS CITY, BIRMINGHAM Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS KC, TOOD CR. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.10 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.12 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.15 15 64 0.70 35 50,000 0.27 65+ 0.08 50 75,000 0.27 >75,000 0.09 Total Population . 58162 Total Families . 16161 Median Income 38705 Average Income 41310 Per Capita Income 13931 B 130 REGION 7 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + SARPY + NE LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 31153 7 NE SARPY Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database CAN PAK INC Air AIRS/DUNS C CO Air AIRS/OUNS MID AMERICAN REFINING INC Air AIRS/DUNS RECYCLING ROUNDUP Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.09 <15,000 0.06 5 9 0.09 15 25,000 0.13 10 14 0.09 25 35,000 0.19 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.27 65+ 0.05 50 75,000 0.25 >75,000 0.10 Total Population 102575 Total Families 27512 Median Income . 42225 Average Income . 46024 Per Capita Income 13447 B 132 REGION 7 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER DOUGLAS NE + LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW O + FIPS Code Region State County 31055 7 NE DOUGLAS Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database OMAHA PAPILLION CREEK WWTF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OMAHA MISSOURI RIVER WWTF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CAN PAK INC Air AIRS/OUNS THREE WAY ALUMINUM RECYCLING Air AIRS/DUNS ASA Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000. 0.13 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.15 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.21 >75,000 0.12 Total Population 419615 Total Families . 107278 Median Income 38911 Average Income 43873 Per Capita Income 13865 B 134 REGION 7 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER POTTAWATTAMIE IA LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES + + AIRS + t SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 19155 7 IA POTTAWATTAMIE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database COUNCIL BLUFFS CITY OF STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS AVOCA CITY OF STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS STANDARD MELTING CNSTR Air AIRS/DUNS RELIANCE BATTERY MFG CO Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.17 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.08 25 33,000 0.23 15 64 0.64 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.17 >75,000 0.05 Total Population 79424 Total Families 21933 Median Income . 31719 Average Income 35584 Per Capita Income . 11364 B 136 REGION 7 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + POLK IA LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 19153 7 IA POLK Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database DES MOINES CITY OF STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DES MOINES CITY OF AREA C STO Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Urbandale Water Dept. Urbandale Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Ankany Water Works Ankeny Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List A B C METALS Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.12 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.14 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.25 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.22 >75,000 0.08 Total Population . 326061 Total Families 85493 Median Income 37656 Average Income . 41269 Per Capita Income 13246 B 138 REGION 7 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER DES MOINES O IA + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 19057 7 IA DES MOINES Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database BURLINGTON CITY OF STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CO Air AIRS/DUNS lows Army Ammunition Plant Middletown Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.15 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.20 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.21 15 64 0.62 35 50,000 0.26 65+ 0.16 50 75,000 0.16 >75,000 0.04 Total Population 42197 Total Families 11570 Median Income 33867 Average Income 37198 Per Capita Income 11770 B 140 REGION 7 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + WYANDOTTE O KS LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES O AIRS SNAP x BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 20209 7 KS WYANDOTTE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database KANSAS CITY KS WWTP 1 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS KANSAS CITY KS 20 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS S G METALS INDUSTRIES, INC Air AIRS/DUNS S G METALS INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS GNB INDUSTRIAL STRY COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.20 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.22 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.19 15 64 0.63 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.12 >75,000 0.03 Total Population 163043 Total Families . 42281 Median Income 28874 Average Income 31721 Per Capita Income 10391 B 142 REGION 8 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LEWIS AND CLARK MT LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR + PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 30049 8 MT LEWIS AND CLARK Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database HELENA CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CHOVANAK INC Air AIRS/DUNS ASA Air AIRS/DUNS East Helena Site East Helena Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.14 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.23 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.17 >75,000 0.04 Total Population 47499 Total Families 12546 Median Income 29926 Average Income 33744 Per Capita Income 11095 B 144 REGION 8 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER 1 t + 08 oo + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES SALT LAKE AIRS + UT SNAP as BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 49035 8 UT SALT LAKE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database SALT LAKE CITY CORP WASTE WATE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GRANGER HUNTER IMP DIST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOUTH VALLEY WATER RECLAM FAC Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SALT LAKE CO COTTONWOOD SAN DI Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SALT LAKE CITY SUB SAN DIST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MURRAY CITY CORP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS S SALT LAKE CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SANDY SUBURBAN IMPR DIST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS KENNECOTT CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS KENNECOTT UTAH COPPER CORP Air AIRS/OUNS AURUM SMELTING REFINING Air AIRS/DUNS CASCADE REFINING INC Air AIRS/DUNS EASTMAN CHRISTENSEN COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS PIONEER REFINING SERVICES Air AIRS/DUNS PIONEER REFINING SERVICES Air AIRS/DUNS Sharon Steel Corp. Midvale Tailings Midvale Superfund Site SNAP Midvale Slag Midvale Superfund Site SNAP Petrochem Recycling Corp./Ekotek Plant Salt Lake City Superfund Site SNAP Portland Cement Kiln Dust 2 3 Salt Lake City Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family income Percent 0 4 0.10 <15,000 0.12 5 9 0.10 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.10 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.62 35 50,000 0.26 65+ 0.08 50 75,000 0.20 >75,000 0.08 Total Population 725928 Total Families 174937 Median Income . 34744 Average Income . 38558 Per Capita Income 11471 B 146 REGION 8 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LEGEND UTAH If FRDS COUNTIES AIRS UT SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 49049 8 UT UTAH Source Name source Address Media of Concern Database GENEVA STEEL PROVO Surface Water direct PCS PROVO CITY CORP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OREM CITY CORP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SPANISH FORK CITY CORP surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SPRINGVILLE CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS AMERICAN FORK STP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PLEASANT GROVE CITY CORP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SPANISH FORK FOUNDRY INC Air AIRS/DUNS TRIO CO Air AIRS/OUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.11 <15,000 0.18 5 9 0.11 15 25,000 0.20 10 14 0.11 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.61 35 50,000 0.21 65+ 0.07 50 75,000 0.16 >75,000 0.07 Total Population 262834 Total Families 56078 Median Income 33656 Average income 38159 Per Capita Income 9248 B 148 REGION 8 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER MINNEHAHA SD B 149 LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP O + BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 46099 8 so MINNEHAHA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database SIOUX FALLS CITY OF Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS UNIT CAN COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS Williams Pipe Line Disposal Pit Sioux Falls Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.13 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.25 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.20 >75,000 0.08 Total Population 123799 Total Families . 31908 Median Income 32983 Average Income . 36438 Per Capita Income . 12216 B 150 REGION 8 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LARIMER CO LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + to SNAP x BRSG + BRSR PCSD POTW + FIPS Code Region State County 08069 8 CO LARIMER Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database FORT COLLINS, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FT COLLINS CITY OF 2 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LOVELAND, CITY OF WWTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UPPER THOMPSON SANITATION DIST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BATTERY WAREHOUSE Air AIRS/DUNS CRYSTAL MOUNTAIN GLASSWORK Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.13 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.16 '10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.69 35 50,000 0.25 65+ 0.10 50 75,000 0.20 >75,000 0.08 Total Population . 185228 Total Families . 47021 Median income 34209 Average Income 38138 Per Capita Income 13144 B 152 REGION 8 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER BOULDER CO + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR a PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 08013 8 CO BOULDER Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database BOULDER, CITY OF 75TH ST PLANT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LONGMONT, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BROONFIELD, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CRYSTAL zoo INC Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.10 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.13 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.15 15 64 0.72 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.07 50 75,000 0.24 >75,000 0.14 Total Population . 241959 Total Families 58756 Median Income 45122 Average Income 50284 Per Capita Income . 16682 B 154 REGION 8 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER ADAMS CO to + + it D LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 08001 8 CO ADAMS Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Oatsbase METRO WASTEWATER RECL DIST E Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOUTH ADAMS COUNTY was DIST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Brighton, City of Brighton Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.09 <15,000 0.13 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.23 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.26 65+ 0.08 50 75,000 0.19 >75,000 0.04 Total Population 235646 Total Families 62209 Median Income . 33719 Average Income 36012 Per Capita Income 11775 B 156 REGION 8 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER to +1 of D + ARAPAHOE CO LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 08005 8 CO ARAPAHOE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database LITTLETON/ENGLEWOOD CITIES E Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TOLLTRECK INTERNATIONAL Air AIRS/DUNS POWER BATTERY COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.09 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.12 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.69 35 50,000 0.25 65+ 0.07 50 75,000 0.25 >75,000 0.12 Total Population . 393611 Total Families 105360 Median Income 40901 Average Income . 45460 Per Capita Income 15899 B 158 REGION 8 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + DENVER CO LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR S PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 08031 8 CO DENVER Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database LAKEWOOD 80 OF WATER SEWER C Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PEERLESS ALLOY CO. Air AIRS/DUNS ATLAS METAL IRON CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS METEX LABORATORY Air AIRS/DUNS PLATINUM RESOURCES CORP Air AIRS/DUNS W R METALS INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS DOUGLAS BATTERY MFG CO Air AIRS/OUNS WHITTAKER TECHNICAL PRODUCTS Air AIRS/DUNS ASARCO, Inc. Globe Plant Denver Superfund site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.20 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.18 10 14 0.05 25 35,000 0.20 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.19 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.16 >75,000 0.07 Total Population 464579 Total Families 107362 Median income 30643 Average Income 35744 Per Capita Income 14106 B 160 REGION 8 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + a PUEBLO CO LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 08101 8 CO PUEBLO Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database PUEBLO, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DOS RIOS ALLOYS INC Air AIRS/DUNS PUEBLO METAL PROCESSING INC Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.23 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.23 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.19 15 64 0.63 35 50,000 0.19 65+ 0.15 50 75,000 0.11 >75,000 0.04 Total Population 122835 Total Families . 33143 Median Income 26375 Average Income . 31304 Per Capits Income . 10809 B 162 REGION 9 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + O ALAMEDA CA LEGEND [1 FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD + POTW FIPS Code Region State County 06001 9 CA ALAMEDA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database EBHUD Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS HAYWARD, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LIVERHORE CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DUBLIN SAN RAMON Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UNION SAN. DIST. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UNION SAN. DIST. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ORO LOMA SAN DIST. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SAN LEANORO, CITY OF Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS UNION SAM. DIST. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DREW RESOURCE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS FRYS METALS INC Air AIRS/OUNS WEST COAST METALS PROCESS INC Air AIRS/DUNS GLOBE METALS CO Air AIRS/DUNS GLOBE METALS Air AIRS/DUNS KONICA IMAGING u S A INC Air AIRS/DUNS C P INORGANICS INC Air AIRS/DUNS N D POWER SOURCES INC Air AIRS/DUNS AIRONICAD INTERNATIONAL CORP Air AIRS/DUNS NEW ENGLAND LEAD BURNING CO Air AIRS/DUNS Lawrence Livermore Laboratory Site 300 Livermore Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.13 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.13 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.14 15 64 0.69 35 50,000 0.21 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.23 >75,000 0.15 Total Population 1271842 Total Families 308809 Median Income . 41912 Average Income 46710 Per Capita Income 16100 B 164 REGION 9 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + 8 + + + CONTRA COSTA O CA + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 06013 9 CA CONTRA COSTA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database WEST COUNTY AGENCY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CENTRAL CONTRA COSTA5019 IMHOF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS DELTA DIABLO S.D. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CONCORD SAN. DIST. 1950 PARKS Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ANTIOCH, CITY OF WTP Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS W. CONTRA COSTA S.D. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS RICHMOND, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS P D Q PRODUCTS Air AIRS/DUNS DREW METALS CO Air AIRS/DUNS GO BATTERY CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS AMERICAN LEADBURNING CO Air AIRS/DUNS Liquid Gold 011 Corp. Richmond Superfund site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.09 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.11 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.12 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.20 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.26 >75,000 0.23 Total Population 801387 Total Families 212391 Median Income 52309 Average Income . 57140 Per Capita income 20060 B 166 REGION 9 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES + + AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR K PCSD 1 POTW SAN FRANCISCO CA FIPS Code Region State County 06075 9 CA SAN FRANCISCO Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database P. G. E. SAN FRANCISCO Surface Water direct PCS P. G. E. SAN FRANCISCO Surface Water direct PCS SAN FRANCISCO C C NORTH POIN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SAN FRANCISCO C C surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SAN FRANCISCO C C Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS AG RECYCLING Air AIRS/DUNS ROTOMETALS INC Air AIRS/DUNS Treasure Island Naval Station Hun Pt An San Francisco Superfund site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.05 <15,000 0.16 5 9 0.04 15 25,000 0.15 10 14 0.04 25 35,000 0.14 15 64 0.72 35 50,000 0.19 65+ 0.15 50 75,000 0.19 >75,000 0.16 Total Population 723425 Total Families 141922 Median Income . 36784 Average Income 44178 Per Capita Income . 16172 B 168 REGION 9 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + O + SAN MATEO of CA + + + LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR it's PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 06081 9 CA SAN MATEO Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database SOUTH BAYSIDE SYSTEM Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SAN MATEO, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS NO. SAN MATEO CNTY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PACIFICA, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BURLINGAME CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MILLBRAE, CITY OF surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ESTERO M.I.D. FOSTER CIT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MENLO PARK S.D. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS REDWOOD CITY, WWTP MAPLE STRE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SAN CARLOS BELMONTSKY WAY M Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Redwood City Redwood City Drinking Water large 819 EPA List San Francisco Int. Airport San Francisco Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Estero Mid Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Hillsborough WD Hillsborough Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List City of Beimont Belmont Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Coastside CND Coastside Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List LARSON ELECTRONIC GLASS Air AIRS/DUNS CRYSTAL EDITIONS INC Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.06 5 9 0.06 15 25,000 0.09 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.12 15 64 0.69 35 50,000 0.20 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.28 >75,000 0.25 Total Population 663093 Total Families 165827 Median Income . 55091 Average Income 61083 Per Capita Income 21479 B 170 REGION 9 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + SANTA CLARA + + CA + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 06085 9 CA SANTA CLARA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database California Water Service San Mateo San Mateo Drinking Water large 819 EPA List City of Milpitas Milpitas Drinking Water large 819 EPA List City of Mountain View Mountain View Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Palo Alto Palo Alto Drinking Water large 819 EPA List CA Water Service San Carlos San Carlos Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List BOLIDEN METECH INC Air AIRS/DUNS MICRO METALLICS CORPORATION Air AIRS/OUNS GOOD SPRINGS MINING REFINERY Air AIRS/DUNS NATIONAL SMELTING REF CO Air AIRS/DUNS U NITINOL Air AIRS/DUNS LXXA Air AIRS/DUNS ULTRACELL INC Air AIRS/DUNS HEDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS CRYSTAL CREATIONS Air AIRS/DUNS INTERNATIONAL LEADFRAME CORP Air AIRS/DUNS CTS Printex, Inc. Mountain View Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.07 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.09 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.11 15 64 0.71 35 50,000 0.19 65+ 0.09 50 75,000 0.30 >75,000 0.25 Total Population 1488140 Total Families 357269 Median Income 53673 Average Income 58120 Per Capita Income 18604 B 172 REGION 9 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW SAN BERNARDINO CA + + + 00 P 11 1 it FIPS Code Region State County 06071 9 CA SAN BERNARDINO Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database CHINO BASIN N.W.D. PLT 1 . o Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SAN BERNARDINO, CITY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS REDLANDS, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Calif. Institution for Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List HARSCO CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS VISTA METALS CORP Air AIRS/DUNS JEFFERSON SMURFIT CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS NORTON BATTERY MFG INC Air AIRS/DUNS CRYSTAL MIREAU Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.10 <15,000 0.17 5 9 0.09 15 25,000 0.17 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.64 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.09 50 75,000 0.19 >75,000 0.07 Total Population . 1413305 Total Families 350072 Median Income 31628 Average Income 35193 Per Capita Income 10774 B 174 REGION 9 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LOS ANGELES CA + + + + + ++ + + + + + + H + + LEGEND + FRDS COUNTIES 4 to AIRS + + + SNAP + ++ BRSG + t ++ + BRSR + PCSD POTW + FIPS Code Region State County 06037 9 CA LOS ANGELES Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database L.A. CNTY SAN. DIST. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LOS ANGELES, CITY OFSEPULVEDA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS L.A. CNTY SAN. DIST. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS L.A. CNTY SAN. DIST. Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS LOS ANGELES, CITY OF surface Water POTW IFD/PCS L.A. CTNY SAN. DIST. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS L.A. CNTY SAN. DIST. surface Water POTW IFD/PCS L.A. CNTY SAN. DIST. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BURBANK, CITY OF PWD Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LAS VIRGENES MUNI. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS L.A. CNTY SAN. DIST. Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS LOS ANGELES, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS L.A. CNTY SAN. DIST. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS RECOVERY MANAGEMENT Air AIRS/DUNS ZURICH FUNDING CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS PAUL RONN REFINING COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS FRYS METALS INC Air AIRS/DUNS QUEMETCO INC Air AIRS/DUNS QUEN SHEL MFG Air AIRS/DUNS TELEDYNE INC Air AIRS/OUNS THOROCK METALS INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS INDUSTRIAL ALUMINUM TRADING CO Air AIRS/DUNS ALCA PACIFIC Air AIRS/DUNS ALCO PACIFIC INC Air AIRS/DUNS PMR CO Air AIRS/DUNS ROPM SYSTEMS CO Air AIRS/DUNS STATE SALVAGE CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS ALLOY METALS CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS DAVID H FELL COMPANY INC Air AIRS/DUNS EUGENE ENTERPRISES INC Air AIRS/DUNS GAMBERG METALS COMPANY INC Air AIRS/DUNS KEITH MARC INC Air AIRS/DUNS MARTIN HANNUM INCORPORATED Air AIRS/DUNS MISSILE METALS INC Air AIRS/DUNS PROLER INTERNATIONAL CORP Air AIRS/OUNS REYNOLDS ALUM RCYCLING CMPANY Air AIRS/OUNS LIBERTY METAL CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS LIBERTY METAL Air AIRS/DUNS ARMAN JEWELRY Air AIRS/DUNS EQUALITY TRADING Air AIRS/DUNS PGP INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS FIRMA INC Air AIRS/DUNS MACLEOO METALS CO Air AIRS/DUNS SILTECH CCRP Air AIRS/DUNS KEEL COMPANY AIRS/DUNS FELCMAN 's SONS Air AIRS/OUNS SINECERA MANUFACTURING Air AIRS/DUNS DAMACO INC Air AIRS/DUNS GNB INCORPORATED Air AIRS/OUNS PALOS VERDES BUILDING CORP Air AIRS/DUNS DEARBORN BATTERY CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS PALOS VERDES BUILDING CORP Air AIRS/OUNS COMMERCIAL STRY OF LOS ANGLES Air AIRS/OUNS LYNWOOD BATTERY MFG CO INC AIR AIRS/DUNS RAMCAR BATTERIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS CABETTE Air AIRS/DUNS TROJAN BATTERY CO Air AIRS/OUNS TOPFLIGHT CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS A 8 C BATTERY COMPANY Air AIRS/DUNS ARNIE SILVERBERG CO AIRS/DUNS INDUSTRIAL CATTERY TNGRG CO Air AIRS/DUNS RIVIERA BATTERY COMPANY INC Air AIRS/DUNS NATIONAL ELECTRO SALES CORP Air AIRS/OUNS ASTRO FLIGHT INC Air AIRS/DUNS CRYSTAL MOBEX INC Air AIRS/DUNS JAMES THMAS STAINED LEADED GL Air AIRS/DUNS LEAD HAMMER SERVICE Air AIRS/DUNS B 176 LEADTEC CALIFORNIA INC Air AIRS/OUNS NEW ENGLAND LEAD BURNING CO Air AIRS/DUNS NEW ENGLAND LEAD BURNING CO Air AIRS/OUNS GNB Air AIRS/DUNS GNB Air AIRS/DUNS QUE Air AIRS/DUNS QUE Air AIRS/DUNS Del Amo Facility Los Angeles Superfund Site SNAP Cooper Drum Co. South Gate Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.17 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.15 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.14 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.20 65+ 0.10 50 75,000 0.20 >75,000 0.14 Total Population 8856627 Total Families 2013670 Median Income . 40355 Average Income . 45758 Per Capita Income . 14794 B 177 REGION 9 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + + + + + + t + + + + + ORANGE + + CA + + t + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES + AIRS. SNAP BKSG BRSR O P SD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 06059 9 CA ORANGE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Oatsbase ALISO WATER MGMT AGY27281 ALIS Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS S.E.R.R.A. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ALISO WATER MGHT AGYOCEAN OUTF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ORANGE CO. S.D. NO.210844 ELLI Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS IRVINE RANCH W.D. MICHAELSON Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS WESTCHESTER BAY SLHATRACTS 785 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SAN CLEMENTE, CITY Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS 0 C HOLDINGS Air AIRS/DUNS RICHAR ENGINEERING INC Air AIRS/DUNS GEMINI INDUSTRIES INCORPORATED Air AIRS/OUNS PACIFIC RECYCLING COMPANY INC Air AIRS/DUNS BIG B BATTERY CO Air AIRS/DUNS NOTHGUORS INC Air AIRS/DUNS JOHNSON CONTROLS INC Air AIRS/DUNS FARADANE INC Air AIRS/DUNS SHARON ANDERSON Air AIRS/DUNS PALOS VERDES BUILDING CORP Air AIRS/DUNS ATLAS SYSTEMS Air AIRS/OUNS FANTASY IN CRYSTAL Air AIRS/OUNS G R TEEPE LEADED GLASS Air AIRS/DUNS E1 Toro Marine Corps Air Station EL Toro Superfund Site SNAP Raiph Gray Trucking Co. Westminster Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.08 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.11 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.13 15 64 0.70 35 50,000 0.20 05+ 0.09 50 75,000 0.26 >75,000 0.22 Total Population . 2422574 Total Families . 585457 Median Income . 49833 Average Income . 55673 Per Capita Income 19159 B 179 REGION 9 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER O SAN DIEGO CA LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP. BRSG BRSR PCSD O is POTW FIPS Code Region State County 06073 9 CA SAN DIEGO Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database so. CA EDISON CO. SAN CLEMENTE Surface Water direct PCS SAN DIEGO, CITY OF POINT LOMA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ENCINA WPCF OCEAN OUTF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SAN ELIJO JOINT POWERS AUTH. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FALLBROOK SAN. DIST. Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS JOHN P HERLEVIC INC Air AIRS/DUNS ALCAN ALUMINUM CORP Air AIRS/DUNS ARTESANIAS BAJA Air AIRS/OUNS CATREL USA Air AIRS/DUNS PUREMETALS CORPORATION Air AIRS/OUNS STAR NORTH RECOVERY Air AIRS/DUNS MODERN MINING Air AIRS/DUNS QUANTUM BATTERIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS ELPOWER INC Air AIRS/DUNS DEEPSEA POWER LIGHT INC Air AIRS/DUNS NIFE INC Air AIRS/DUNS WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP Air AIRS/DUNS RED LINE RESEARCH LABORATORIES Air AIRS/DUNS TEMPO RESEARCH CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS OI NEG TV PRODUCTS INC Air AIRS/OUNS GNB Air AIRS/DUNS Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.16 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.17 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.16 15 64 0.68 35 50,000 0.20 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.19 75,000 0.12 Total Population . 2469656 Total Families . 598214 Median Income 37521 Average Income . 42873 Per Capita Income . 13619 B 181 REGION 9 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER MARICOPA it AZ + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR K PCSD . POTW FIPS Code Region State County 04013 9 AZ MARICOPA Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database PHOENIX, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PHOENIX, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS IRE AG USA INC Air AIRS/DUNS LARSON METALS RECOVERY NOT INC Air AIRS/DUNS AMR INDUSTRIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS SOUTHWEST REFINING CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS AMERICAN PLATINUM Air AIRS/DUNS ARIZONA CASTINGS INC Air AIRS/DUNS MICROELECTRONICS EXCHANGE Air AIRS/DUNS NATIONAL SMELTING REF CO Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS Nineteenth Avenue Landfill Phoenix Superfund Site SNAP Williams Air Force Base Chandler Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.14 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.23 65+ 0.12 50 75,000 0.20 >75,000 0.09 Total Population 2113036 Total Families . 544259 Median Income 35786 Average Income 40228 Per Capita Income 13261 B 183 REGION 10 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER CLACKAMAS OR LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD an POTW FIPS Code Region State County 41005 10 OR CLACKAMAS Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database PORTLAND, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CLACKAMAS COUNTY SERVICE DIST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS OAK LODGE SANITARY DISTRICT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TRI CITY SERVICE DISTRICT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Canby Utility Board Canby Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Clairmont Water District Claimment Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Oregon City South Fork Oregon City Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List West Limn, City of West Linn Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Lake Oswego Municipal Water Lake Oswego Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.10 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.13 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.14 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.26 >75,000 0.13 Total Population . 260383 Total Families 72005 Median Income . 41270 Average Income 44376 Per Capita Income 15569 B 185 REGION 10 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER 10 + I EGEND PIERCE [1 FRDS COUNTIES WA AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 53053 10 WA PIERCE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database TACOMA, CITY OF 1 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TACOMA, CITY OF 3 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PUYALLUP, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS BUCKLEY, TOWN OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ORTING, TOWN OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS METRO . AUBURN Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS TACOMA, CITY OF 2 Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Tacoma Tacome Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Southwood Water System Southwood Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List AMERICAN SMELTIN REFINING CO Air AIRS/DUNS GNB BATTERIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS KIBBEY BATTERY SERVICE INC Air AIRS/OUNS SOUND BATTERY CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS PACIFIC LEAD MET ROOF SUPS CO Air AIRS/DUNS McChord Air Force Base Wash Rack/Treat Tacome Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.16 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.19 >75,000 0.08 Total Population 585465 Total Families 151434 Median Income 35161 Average Income 39131 Per Capita Income 12876 B 187 REGION 10 COUNTY CON TAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW CLARK WA FIPS Code Region State County 53011 10 WA CLARK Source Name source Address Media of Concern Database VANCOUVER, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS VANCOUVER, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CAMAS, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CLARK COUNTY SALMON CREEK ST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LAB SYSTEMS INC Air AIRS/DUNS NORTHWEST TACKLE MFG Air AIRS/DUNS ALCOA Vancouver Smelter Vancouver Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.14 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.15 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.26 65+ 0.11 50 73,000 0.21 >75,000 0.06 Total Population . 238344 Total Families . 63829 Median Income 36556 Average Income 39442 Per Capita Income 13102 B 189 REGION 10 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER + WASHINGTON + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW O FIPS Code Region State County 41067 10 OR WASHINGTON source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database UNIFIED SEWERAGE AGENCY OF WA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UNIFIED SEWERAGE AGENCY OF WA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UNIFIED SEWERAGE AGENCY OF WA Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS UNIFIED SEWERAGE AGENCY ALOHA Surface Water POTW IFO/PCS HILLSBORO, CITY OF . ROCK CREE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Tualatin Valley Besverton Beaverton Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Tualatin, City of Tualatin Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List West Slope Water District West Slope Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Beaverton, Public Works Beaverton Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.10 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.12 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.18 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.10 50 75,000 0.26 >75,000 0.10 Total Population 316938 Total Families . 84538 Median Income 38612 Average income 42210 Per Capita Income . 14746 B 191 REGION 10 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS + SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW MULTNOMAH FIPS Code Region State County 41051 10 OR MULTNOMAN Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database PORTLAND, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS GRESHAM, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MULTNOMAN COUNTY INVERNESS S Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS MILWAUKIE, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Portland, City of Portland Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Gresham PWO Water Section Gresham Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Hazelwood Water District Hazelwood Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Rockwood Water District Rockwood Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Powell Valley Road Water Powell Valley Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List NON FERROUS METAL RECLAIMING Air AIRS/DUNS WAGSTAFF BATTERY MFG CO Air AIRS/DUNS STANDARD BATTERIES INC Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS Allied Plating, Inc. Portland Superfund Site SNAP Hamilton Island Landfill USA/COE North Bonneville Superfund Site SNAP Gould, Inc. Portland Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.16 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.17 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.19 15 64 0.67 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.14 50 75,000 0.19 >75,000 0.08 Total Population 593443 Total Families . 145558 Median Income 32530 Average Income 37243 Per Capita Income 13188 B 193 REGION 10 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER BENTON LEGEND WA FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP O BRSG + BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 53005 10 WA BENTON Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database KENNEWICK, CITY OF Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS RICHLAND, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS PROSSER, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS KANES CHEMICAL CO INC Air AIRS/DUNS Hanford 300 Aree USDOE Benton County Superfund Site SNAP Hanford 1100 Area USDOE Benton County Superfund Site SNAP Hanford 100 Aree USDOE Benton County Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.10 5 9 0.09 15 25,000 0.15 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.30 65+ 0.10 50 75,000 0.21 >75,000 0.07 Total Population . 112549 Total Families . 30481 Median Income 34891 Average Income . 37982 Per Capita Income 12577 3 195 REGION 10 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER SNOHOMISH O WA LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 53061 10 WA SMOHOMISH Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database EVERETT, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS EDMONDS, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LYNNWOOD, CITY OF Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS GRANITE FALLS, TOWN OF Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS SNOHOMISH, CITY OF Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS Olympic View Water District Olympic View Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Arlington Water Dept. Artington Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List AGCO METALEX CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS M 2 ENTERPRISES Air AIRS/DUNS MARYSVILLE BATTERY MFG Air AIRS/OUNS Tutalip Landfill Marysville Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.11 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.13 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.15 15 64 0.66 35 50,000 0.25 65+ 0.10 50 75,000 0.25 >75,000 0.11 Total Population 460395 Total Families . 122866 Median Income . 40761 Average Income . 44118 Per Capita Income . 14808 B 197 REGION 10 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP 0 KING BRSG BRSR PCSD + WA POTW D + + FIPS Code Region State County 53033 10 WA KING Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database METRO Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS METRO . RENTON Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS METRO Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SOUTHWEST SUBURBAN SEWER DIST Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS SOUTHWEST SUBURBAN SEWER DIST Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS METRO Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS SEATTLE W. SEATTLE Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS MIDWAY SEWER DISTRICT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SEATTLE PIPER CREEK Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS FEDERAL WAY WATER SEVER DIST Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS ENUMCLAW, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS LAKEHAVEN SEWER DISTRICT LAK Surface Water POTW IFO/PCS BELLEVUE, CITY OF Surface Water PQTW IFD/PCS RONALD SEWER DISTRICT SEATTLE Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS SOUTH CHRISTIANA TEMPORY TREAT Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS METRO Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Northshore Utility Dist. Northshore Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Bellevue, City of Ballevue Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Seattle Water Dept. Seattle Drinking Water large 819 EPA List Bothell, City of Bothell Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Bryn Mawr Lakeridge Water Bryn Mawr Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Cedar River Water Sewer Cedar River Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Skyway Water Sewer Dist. Skyway Drinking Water med. 319 EPA List King County Water Dist. 20 Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List King County Water Dist. 107 Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List King County Water Dist. 45 Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List King County Water list. 125 Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List King County Water Dist. 90 Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List King County Water Dist. 45 Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Kirkland, City of Kirkland Drinking Water med. 319 EPA List Mercer Island, city of Mercer Island Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Rose HILL Water Dist. Rose Hill Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Shorel ine Water Dist. Shorel ine Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Soos Creek Water Sewer SOOS Creek Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Tukwila Water Dept. Tukwila Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List Woodinville Water District Woodinvill Drinking Water med. 819 EPA List ALUMATEK METALS Air AIRS/OUNS DYNO BATTERY COMPANY Air AIRS/OUNS STANDARD BATTERIES INC Air AIRS/OUNS NORTHWEST LEAD PRODUCTS INC Air AIRS/DUNS Harbor Island Lead Seattle Superfund Site SNAP Pacific Car Foundry Co. Renton Superfund Site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.09 5 9 0.07 15 25,000 0.11 10 14 0.06 25 35,000 0.13 15 64 0.70 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.27 >75,000 0.18 Total Population 1519377 Total Families . 381818 Median Income 44006 Average Income 48495 Per Capita Income . 17222 B 199 REGION 10 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTERS LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR PCSD POTW KITSAP + WA + 0 FIPS Code Region State County 53035 10 WA KITSAP Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database BREMERTON, CITY OF Surface Water POTW 1FD/PCS BREMERTON, CITY OF 1 MANETTE Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS Bremerton Municipal util. Bremerton Drinking Water large 819 EPA List BAINBRIDGE LEAD PRODUCTS Air AIRS/DUNS Bangor Navel Submerine Base Silverdale Superfund site SNAP Jackson Park Housing Complex US Nevy Kitsap County Superfund site SNAP Naval Undersea Warfare Station 4 Areas Keyport Superfund site SNAP Puget sound Navel Shipyard Complex Bremerton Superfund site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.08 <15,000 0.15 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.16 10 14 0.08 25 35,000 0.21 15 64 0.65 35 50,000 0.22 65+ 0.11 50 75,000 0.20 >75,000 0.07 Total Population 186175 Total Families . 50084 Median Income . 34914 Average Income 39206 Per Capita Income 13284 B 201 REGION 10 COUNTY CONTAINING MULTIMEDIA LEAD CLUSTER SPOKANE WA + + LEGEND FRDS COUNTIES AIRS SNAP BRSG BRSR 's PCSD POTW FIPS Code Region State County 53063 10 WA SPOKANE Source Name Source Address Media of Concern Database SPOKANE, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS CHENEY, CITY OF Surface Water POTW IFD/PCS SIEMENS ENERGY AUTOMATION Air AIRS/DUNS EXIDE CORPORATION Air AIRS/DUNS Fairchild Air Force Base 4 Waste Areas Spokane County Superfund site SNAP General Electric Spokane Shop Spokane Superfund site SNAP North Market Street Spokane Superfund site SNAP Old Inland pit Spokane Superfund site SNAP Spokane Junkyard and Associated Prop Spokane County Superfund site SNAP Population Demographics Age Group Percent Annual Family Income Percent 0 4 0.07 <15,000 0.17 5 9 0.08 15 25,000 0.17 10 14 0.07 25 35,000 0.17 15 64 0.64 35 50,000 0.24 65+ 0.13 50 75,000 0.18 >75,000 0.07 Total Population 359335 Total Families 93272 Median Income 34973 Average Income 38668 Per Capita Income 12481 B 203 APPENDIX C DESCRIPTION OF DATABASE FILES INCLUDED WITH DOCUMENT Database files included with the Multi media Lead Cluster Report. DISK 1 Disk 1 contains database files used to map multimedia lead clusters in Mapinfo following the ranking methodology developed by SAIC and the USEPA. The following lists describes the files included on disk 1: File Name Description REG1RKS.I DBF Data for the Ten Lead Cluster Counties identified in Region 1. REG2RKS. DBF Data for the Ten Lead Cluster Counties identified in Region 2. REG3RKS. DBF Data for the Ten Lead Cluster Counties identified in Region 3. REG4RKS.DBF Data for the Ten Lead Cluster Counties identified in Region 4. REG5RKS.DB Data for the Ten Lead Cluster Counties identified in Region 5. REG6RKS.DB Data for the Ten Lead Cluster Counties identified in Region 6. REG7RKS. DBF Data for the Ten Lead Cluster Counties identified in Region 7. REG8RKS. DBF Data for the Ten Lead Cluster Counties identified in Region 8. REG9RKS.DBF Data for the Ten Lead Cluster Counties identified in Region 9. REGXRKS.DBF Data for the Ten Lead Cluster Counties identified in Region 10. REGRANK.DBF Summary of all 100 Regional Lead Cluster Counties. NATCNTYS.DBF Data on the Top 100 National Lead Cluster Counties. DISK 2 Disk 2 contains database files used to map lead source data. The following lists describes the files included on disk 2: File Name Description AiRSNAT DBF Sources from AIRS database included in mapping and ranking. BRSNATR. DBF Receiver sources from BRS database included in mapping and ranking. BRSNATG.DB Generator sources from BRS database included in mapping and ranking. PCS4952.DBF Sources from AIRS database included in mapping and ranking. PCSPB5I.DBF Direct sources from PCS database included in mapping and ranking. MEDMDW.DBF Medium systems from FRDS database included in mapping and ranking. SNAP.DBF Sites from NPL database included in mapping and ranking. LARGEPSW.DBF Large systems from FRDS database included in mapping and ranking. C 1